Organization Background*Please provide a brief description of your organization's mission and history.Guidance: Please limit your response to approximately 300 words.Cambio Labs was established in 2021 by Sebastián Martín, a social entrepreneur and educator, in response to educational and employment inequities faced by low-income BIPOC youth. Working with 2 high school aged coders, he built Journey, a gamified learning platform.Since launching, Cambio Labs has served over 380 learners, delivering 23 programs. We partner with schools, youth organizations, nonprofits, businesses, and government agencies to deliver social entrepreneurship and green workforce training, providing access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities, and the building blocks to create generational wealth for underestimated youth and adults. Since 2022, Cambio Labs has partnered closely with the RETI Center to deliver a solar training program in the climate-vulnerable area of Red Hook. This program provides underemployed workers with valuable skills and knowledge in renewable energy and solar installation, as well as certifications and internship opportunities.In 2024 Cambio Labs launched Startup NYCHA, an initiative to empower entrepreneurs living in public housing. We are currently running our 5-month pilot program, where NYCHA resident entrepreneurs engage in weekly business accelerator programming along with ongoing mentorship and business development support. Cambio Labs has been working in the South Bronx since the start of our operations, including collaborations and programming with local schools, nonprofits, and business accelerators.Program DescriptionGuidance: In one page (300 words maximum), describe the program, its purpose and how it will be implemented. In addition, please describe how Con Edison's funding will be used.Cambio Energy: a Green Infrastructure & Ecosystem Building InitiativeCambio Energy is an initiative to create access to clean energy jobs, utilities savings through community solar projects, and green entrepreneurship accelerators that will produce green new businesses and community owned cooperatives. Our plan is to work with ecosystem partners across the corporate, workforce, nonprofit, union, and government sectors to activate publicly accessible spaces where community members can benefit from free renewable energy jobs training, green entrepreneurship accelerator programs, internship and job placement opportunities, and access to mentorship, technology, and mutual aid.We are seeking funding to execute the following pilot:? Leverage Cambio Labs’ current Startup NYCHA relationships to activate a NYCHA community center as a site for weekly programming? Partner with solar training, labor certification (OSHA, unions), and solar installation organizations to pilot the Cambio Solar program, a 6-month solar training and green entrepreneurship program where 30 NYCHA residents will receive certifications, stipends, and paid internship opportunities upon completion ? Leverage technology like Journey, Cambio Labs’ gamified learning platform, to train and credentialize participants, and AI features to enable personalized learning and coaching? Connect participants to clean energy employers, unions, and government solar installation projects ? Subscribe New Yorkers to community solar initiatives (i.e., RETI’s Local Power) and utilities savings via solar credits from Con Edison.? Develop Cambio Solar into a cooperative solar installation company and community solar project developer to provide jobs directly to graduatesFuture milestones:? Expand renewable energy jobs training (include wind and battery development)? Expand Cambio Energy programs across New York City, leveraging digital platforms ? Place graduates into clean energy jobs nationally ? Scale green entrepreneurship and cooperative training programs to proliferate green businesses ownership, community solar, and access to affordable and clean energy ? Tap into government incentives (IRA, Solar for All, NY Sun) to fund solar project development0 / 2500*Please list any organizations, agencies or intermediaries that you will be partnering with that are critical to your success and their role.? An overview of each partner / applicant agency, their roles in the project and their history of successful work in the areas addressed by the application. Partnerships to service providers, community-based organizations, and industry/employer partnersEcosystem Partner DescriptionsMott Haven Houses (Government Agency)Role:? Management and Access of NYCHA Community Center? Marketing and socialization of programs among Mott Haven Houses residents? Sites for weekly programming: i.e, Cambio Solar Program, entrepreneurship workshops and coaching. Public sites for connecting with resources and mutual aid? Potential sites for community solar projects. Our vision for the future: solar installation projects on NYCHA rooftops, run by NYCHA resident solar entrepreneurs!? Potential beneficiaries of resident-owned green business services (green construction, retrofitting and electrifying apartments, energy audits, efficiency, heat pump installation, gardening and composting, recycling, solar installation & utilities maintenance)  Cambio Labs(Nonprofit)Role:? Ecosystem Builder that catalyzes projects and initiatives across multiple stakeholders? Manage the broader Cambio Energy ecosystem and pilot program execution? Activate Mott Haven Houses Community Space as a Cambio Hub on a weekly basis? Deliver the Cambio Solar program, including solar installation, industry recognized credential acquisition (i.e., OSHA & GPRO), green entrepreneurship, and renewable energy jobs readiness and mentorship programs? Create access to technology for all participants of our programming, including: access to the Journey platform which will contain educational content, useful resources, connections to experts and prizes, and AI tools that can enable self-directed learning? Leverage the Journey platform and build the digital infrastructure to connect educational and workforce development programs across NYC and beyond ? Develop Cambio Solar into a cooperative solar installation company and community solar project developer to provide jobs directly to graduatesThe Oyate Group(Nonprofit)Role:? Offering opportunities for youth internships and entrepreneurship grant programs (i.e., Community Capital, Rising Restaurateur), as well as other social services and initiatives at Mott Haven Community Center? Hosting special trainings and events for Cambio Energy & Ecosystem at Oyate’s Headquarters in the South Bronx? Leverage youth interns and young professionals to promote community solar subscriptions in the local community, creating utilities savings for families in the South Bronx? Potential to develop K12 solar curriculum and install solar panels on rooftop of recently opened school: La Escuela Comunitaria del Bronx? Develop connections with real estate partners and property developers for solar installation projects? Potential investor and financier of solar projects and renewable energy business development The Point CDC (Nonprofit)Role:? Solar installation & community solar development partner? Internship and jobs placement partner for Cambio Solar graduates? Visits to the Point solar from Cambio Solar participants: visiting solar rooftop sites, shadowing solar workers, learning different types of solar industry jobs? Potential partnership with Cambio Labs to deliver youth programming around green entrepreneurship  innovation and renewable energy jobs training at the Mott Haven community space? Collaboration with Cambio Labs and Solar Program graduates to promote community solar and energy savings to the South Bronx community? Leverage congressional funding received from Representative Alexandría Ocasio Cortez and the Department of Energy for community solar development ? Potential future collaboration with Cambio Solar to develop solar installation and community solar projects togetherInternational Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) - Local Union No. 3(Union)? Connect graduates to unionized solar companies and jobs, leveraging the fact that in NY larger solar installation projects are increasingly completed with union contractors   ? Assist with developing job trainings and certification acquisition that aligns with union standards? Develop onboarding onto apprenticeship opportunities and union membership pathways? Help connect program graduates to other green unionized jobs from labor organizations like the United Auto Workers (UAW), the Laborers International Union of North America (LIUNA), and the International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE)? Work with Cambio Solar to become a unionized solar installer cooperative and community solar developer. As a unionized cooperative community solar developer, Cambio Solar will take advantage of federal incentives like the Qualifying Advanced Energy Project Credit (48C) *Please specify the primary goals you are seeking to achieve with your project/ program.Goals:Create an ecosystem and network of partners around Cambio Solar to execute a vision that can provide many clean energy jobs in NYC, to test a model that could potentially be scaled nationally as we can place solar and clean energy workers across the country- Economic empowerment To create wealth for underestimated families in clean energy sector through employment and business ownership. - Utilities savings for families through community solar projects- Economic and racial diversity in solar and clean energy sector- To create en ecosystem that can be replicated and scaled across NYC and beyond- To deepen network connections, ecosystem with other solar employer partners, unions, advocates and elected officials- To eventually tap into congressional funding - To catalyze the solar movement in NYC- To win contracts eventually as Cambio Solar, a unionized cooperative community solar developer