What is the name of your idea? *Journey: A Social Entrepreneurship Incubator for High SchoolsPlease describe the idea. What is the idea trying to do, and for whom? *We are delivering the Journey program as a social entrepreneurship course and online learning platform where entrepreneurs work with teammates to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Throughout the program, students and users engage in entrepreneurial coaching from industry professionals, and are exposed to internship and job opportunities from partner organizations in the fields of tech, sustainability, design, and innovation.Our primary users are high school students. Our curriculum and learning platform are designed to engage youth that: a) have an interest in starting a venture, b) want to gain skills that increase their chances of employment and earning income, or c) that are not excelling in more traditional modes of school. Our mission is to empower low income and underrepresented BIPOC communities through free, sponsored programming. We prioritize serving communities that have been historically marginalized from business ownership and entrepreneurial education.What is the origin story for the program that VELA would be supporting? How did the program come to be? *High school didn't prepare Sebastian Martin to find employment or solve real problems in the 21st century. Later in life, business school failed to prepare him for the practical realities of entrepreneurship: as a Latinx founder without special networks, he had to learn his most valuable lessons on his own. Later, as an educator, Sebastian realized that his social entrepreneurship courses were only available to the wealthiest, predominantly white, 1%. Sebastian founded Cambio Labs as a nonprofit to address inequity in our U.S. education and business systems, and to create access to economic empowerment for underrepresented communities. What is your relationship to the group you are serving? *Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our Journey program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school.  I have been personally instructing the course and building relationships with students, and frequently coached them collectively and individually.I identify with the students that we work with as a person of color, and as someone that faced systemic barriers to enter the field of entrepreneurship.How is the program driven by the community it serves? Please provide examples rather than describing a philosophy or approach. *The students and school leaders that we worked with during our 2022 pilot have been pivotal in informing and adapting our program. Our team regularly surveyed students about their development of “durable skills” and their satisfaction with our program and technology platform. We received valuable feedback that has led to changes in our web product’s functionality and interface. Feedback from school leaders has informed crucial changes to our strategy and platform, including: ensuring that our curriculum always highlights entrepreneurs of color, packaging of student and cohort data that will be useful for schools, and aligning our program with state requirements.What are their priorities, values, and needs? *Our students are motivated to join our social entrepreneurship course to a) find solutions to social problems that affect them and their families, and b) to develop the business skills needed to secure employment or generate wealth for themselves and their families. Many of our students perceive entrepreneurship as a means to owning resources and making money, and the majority of their survey responses reflect that they are career driven and believe that our course can teach them skills that can help them access college, jobs, and business ownership. During the pilot, I learned that besides wanting to make money, students were extremely passionate and motivated to solve community problems like discrimination, poverty, gun violence, and toxic body standards. To successfully develop 21st century employment skills and business acumen, students need an accessible and engaging curriculum, expert instruction and coaching, and entrepreneurial resources like social and financial capital.Through interviews with students and school leaders, surveys, and personal observation by myself while instructing the pilot course, I have gleaned the following insights about student priorities, values, and needs. Our students are motivated to join a social entrepreneurship course like ours to a) find solutions to social problems that affect them, their families, and friends, and b) to develop the business skills needed to secure employment or economic independence to generate wealth for themselves and their families. Many of our students perceive entrepreneurship as a means to owning resources and making money, and the majority of their survey responses reflect that they are career driven and believe that our course can teach them new skills that can help them access college, jobs, and business ownership. During the pilot, I was pleased to learn that besides wanting to make money, students were extremely passionate and motivated to solve community problems like discrimination, poverty, gun violence, and toxic body standards. To successfully develop 21st century employment skills  and the business acumen required to launch a social venture, students need an accessible and engaging curriculum, expert instruction and coaching, and entrepreneurial resources like social and financial capital.Priorities:discovering a sense of purpose, gaining employability skills, and earning enough income to provide for their families and to find a pathway outside of poverty. Some of our students are interested in attending college, while others are prepared to enter the workforce.All of our students have expressed an interest in entrepreneurship, and we have found that they are driven by prospect of making money, but also by the possibility of making a social impact in their local community. Their priorities are reflected by the social venture ideas they have come up with:This also reflects their values, rooted in community and family.Need project based / problem based learning. Mentorship. Community solutionsOther needs include strong academic performance, the preparedness to enter college or gain employment, to find internships and work based learning experiences, and to generate wealth and ownership that may get themHow are you meeting their priorities, values, and needs with your idea? *Here are some benefits that underserved students gain from taking the Journey program: 1) students gain social capital- like Salma, a pilot student that expressed interest in applying for an internship in Capital One after months of professional mentorship. 2) If students are struggling in school, studies show that experiential learning and mentorship can increase academic engagement and prospects of graduation. Surveys from our pilot program confirm increased confidence. 3) Starting their own venture in high school - and developing durable skills- is a compelling narrative that can help students gain entry to college and employment. 4) By starting their own social venture, students create an organization that addresses local community issues in ways that can benefit them and their families. 5) If students are inspired by our program to become entrepreneurs, this could increase their personal lifetime earnings, and be a pathway to economic empowerment - as it was for me. Our students are motivated to join our social entrepreneurship course to a) find solutions to social problems that affect them and their families, and b) to develop the business skills needed to secure employment or generate wealth for themselves and their families. Many of our students perceive entrepreneurship as a means to owning resources and making money, and the majority of their survey responses reflect that they are career driven and believe that our course can teach them skills that can help them access college, jobs, and business ownership. During the pilot, I learned that besides wanting to make money, students were extremely passionate and motivated to solve community problems like discrimination, poverty, gun violence, and toxic body standards. To successfully develop 21st century employment skills and business acumen, students need an accessible and engaging curriculum, expert instruction and coaching, and entrepreneurial resources like social and financial capital.What is the relationship between the program for which you’re requesting funding and existing school systems (public, private, or charter)? Is it operated in addition to, in partnership with, in place of, or as a hybrid? *Our program generally is meant to be adopted by schools, as a course that can be offered as an elective or after school program. We are requesting this funding to run a pilot after school program with NYCHA youth residents - it would be community based and run independently of schools.Ideally our social entrepreneurship curriculum will be a part of students’ schedule, and a pathway that they can receive academic credit for. What makes the program nontraditional in its approach? In other words, how does the learning experience differ from what learners and/or families have typically been able to access through conventional learning opportunities? Please be specific. *Our program emphasizes collaborative project based and experiential learning, real world problem solving and community engagement, and creates opportunities for interacting with mentors, community members, and employers in ways that are rarely offered in traditional school settings. Students develop “durable” skills like communication, collaboration, and problem solving - practical employable competencies that are underemphasized in traditional schools. Another innovative feature of the Journey program is that it is delivered through our digital learning platform - a gamified interface that includes video lessons, challenges, and prizes that make learning for students (whether in-person or distanced) more engaging, better organized, and easier to review.  incentivized than more traditional school offerings.  and that will help them get jobs and earn income through future business ownershipPBL = project based learning and problem based learningA learning experience rooted in real world problem solving and engaging with local community membersMentorship and professional coaching, exposure to investors, employers, and various business development opportunitiesOur program actually teaches students durable and 21st century skills, and offers them pathways to job, college, and business ownership.Opportunities and courses like these are rarely offered in a traditional school or school system.Digital  aspectMore engaging, easier to retain and review information, platform resources and perksAlthough several organizations are involved in the delivery of entrepreneurship programs to young people - what makes our approach differentiated is our focus on developing Journey as a gamified, digital learning platform to deliver our curricular program. We have designed it so that all of the core curricular content is automated with video lessons, and easy for teachers and facilitators to deliver the program. This technology and “train the trainer” model will be the key factor for rapid scalability and more schools adopting social entrepreneurial curriculum. Leveraging our platform, and incorporating frequent surveys and feedback with users, also allows for us to capture and package data related to student performance and outcomes, impact on college and job readiness, and the development of innovation abilities and culture among students and schools.Scalable, technology solution with integrated teacher tools and learning mechanisms How would you use this funding? *We will use this funding to cover part of the cost of launching a weekly, after school program at a NYCHS (affordable housing development) called Fulton Houses. Students will develop entrepreneurial skills and launch social ventures that address local social problems.  Our programatic goals will be to help students develop durable and employability skills, and to connect them to mentors and internship or employment opportunities. $10,000 will cover the part time salary of an adult NYCHA resident that will be trained as a Journey Instructor, with a plan for them to take over program management and instruction in Year 2.