What issue or opportunity does your venture, product, or service intend to address? Suggested word count: 200 Words Guidance: Tell us the unmet need for a significant issue that your product or service is filling. We expect you to include evidence for this problem, whether that is supported by quantitative (e.g. numerical data or research) and/or qualitative (e.g. testimonials or lived experience) assessments. We also expect you to address how you specifically understand the strengths and needs of the people you are serving. Traditional education fails to provide students with the tools necessary to successfully navigate the current workforce, creating a significant gap between the skills that employers need and those that students possess. A recent review of 82 million job postings found that 70% of requested skills were durable skills, yet only 25% of employers believe that recent graduates are prepared for entry-level jobs. Only 16% of low-income young adults have access to apprenticeships, which are a key pathway to high-paying jobs. This lack of access is particularly pronounced for Black and Latinx youth, who make up only 9% and 7% of registered apprentices, respectively. America Succeeds has also highlighted the lack of critical durable skills, such as problem-solving, communication, collaboration, and critical thinking in the education system and advocates for work-based learning opportunities to cultivate the critical durable skills to thrive in a rapidly changing economy. We recognize the additional challenges faced by BIPOC youth, who lack access to the same opportunities as their counterparts. For example, 1 in 3 BIPOC students attend "drop-out factories, "which graduate less than 60% of their students. COVID-19 has further impacted these communities, with 61% of Latinx Americans and 44% of Black Americans experiencing wage or job loss compared to 38% of white households. The traditional high school infrastructure and teaching methodology has not addressed the systemic impact on youth or teachers in a meaningful, culturally-informed manner. However, research and my lived experience as a Latinx educator teaching primarily BIPOC youth demonstrates that these youth possess extraordinary skills, such as resilience, adaptability, and creativity, which are critical to thrive in the face of technological disruption and rapid changes in the labor market.What are your ventures' key activities and outcomes that address the need you are solving? How have you improved your product or service to meet these needs? Suggested word count: 300 Words Guidance: In the simplest terms, tell us what is your venture's primary product or service. We believe that the best ideas are designed alongside your customers and beneficiaries, and we encourage you to include evidence of co- creation with the communities you serve. In your response, we expect a clear outline of how you have adapted to feedback from the community in order to improve your venture offerings. It might also include your definition of success in these key activities and outcomes as well as how you'll evaluate when success is achieved. Cambio Labs is a nonprofit organization that provides educational technology and curricular programs to transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. We co-design all of our programs with community partners, which include the digital learning platform, Journey, the Social Entrepreneurship Program, and the Green Workforce Development Program. The development of our programming and learning platform has been an iterative process, in which we invite and integrate the feedback of our community members, and center them as experts. At our core, we know those that are most proximate to issues are also best equipped to solve them. After 1.5 years of operations, we have been able to serve 199 individual participants with our community's support. Journey is a dynamic online learning platform we built that features multimedia lessons, prompts, and team-based challenges to help participants launch their ventures. As they progress, users earn "gemstones" that can be exchanged for prizes, workshops, and services provided by our corporate and global partners and volunteers. The platform also provides access to mentorship programs, job opportunities, and other resources, making it a gateway to a broader ecosystem of support for participants. The Journey platform provides instructors with easy-to-use teaching tools and guides- for educators, by educators. After each cohort, our students and instructors meet with our UX designers, to provide feedback, and we adjust our platform design accordingly. The Social Entrepreneurship Program is designed to help social entrepreneurs and teachers build durable employment and entrepreneurship skills. We aim to create a diverse, culturally competent ecosystem of mentors and leaders in tech, sustainability, and entrepreneurship fields to support young social entrepreneurs. Graduates from the program return as co-facilitators, alumni mentors, and paid Cambio Labs interns and receive stipends to create a work-based learning model, which is intrinsic for developing durable skills and securing high-paying jobs. The Green Workforce Development Program is co-designed with multiple community-based organizations, and supported by government and corporate partners. We delivered a solar workforce development initiative using our Journey Platform, in collaboration with the RETI Center in Red Hook, Brooklyn, Brooklyn SolarWorks, and the 5 / 19 Green Urban Council, funded by NYSDERA and Amazon. Participants are connected to paid internships, earn OSHA 40, GPRO, and Cambio's Green Entrepreneurship certifications, and visit real solar work sites. It was a great example of the power of cross-sectoral collaborations to enable more robust programming and opportunities. As we renew and expand contracts with our community partners, we hope to leverage technology to enable us to automate and standardize our procurement and integration of feedback to continue our iterative process of adapting and improving our entrepreneurial curriculum. This will be essential to ensure our programming and technology are responsive to BIPOC youth's needs. We measure our impact by tracking the improvement of durable skills, creation of mentorship relationships with BIPOC coaches and instructors, and the creation of paid work-based experiences.Who are your customers or beneficiaries? How do you acquire or plan to acquire customers or beneficiaries? Please also share information on any pilots run, those involved, and how the results inform the venture. Suggested word count: 200 Words Guidance: We are asking this question to generally understand how you have already or are prepared to engage with customers or beneficiaries. This might include a quantitative assessment of the number or proportion of customers in your market. We expect it to include a qualitative description of their characteristics and needs. Your response must also include a summary of pilot activities and results. Our focus is on providing tools to our core beneficiaries, underserved BIPOC adolescents and young adults, to help them become the changemakers their communities need. We offer social entrepreneurship programming for middle and high school students, as well as green workforce development programs for young adults. Our target clients are community-based organizations, programs, or schools with social missions to empower underserved adolescents and young adults by equipping them with social innovation skills and work-based learning opportunities. Since launching in 2021, we have served 199 individual youths, hired or trained 7 instructors to deliver our curricula using the Journey platform, trained and engaged 15 volunteer coaches to support our social entrepreneurs. We are proud to report 66% of our program participants have engaged in paid work-based learning opportunities. We generated $140,000 in program revenue in our first year, and this year, we are in the process of securing proposals that will total $300,000 in 2023. All our clients have renewed and expanded their contracts with us, and have invited us to apply jointly for funding to expand programming. Our outreach model involves partnering with grassroot, frontline, community-run organizations that have established trusted relationships with the families of our beneficiaries. We are active in the social innovation ecosystem and are looking to grow our community through our involvement with organizations like the CITY Fellowship by Company Ventures, 4.0 Schools, 100 Coaches, the RETI Center, and Communitas America. We have recently onboarded a second full-time employee, who has activated our social media platforms, revamped our website, and engaged Play Creative, a digital marketing agency, to design a pro-bono digital outreach campaign using our $10,000/month Google Ad grant to recruit mentors and coaches for our students.What makes your venture profitable and/or financially sustainable? Suggested word count: 200 Words Guidance: We want to confirm that your business model will serve your community in the long-term. If applicable, your response will include an overview of your fundraising strategy. Regardless, we expect you to include your plans for increasing your venture's reach and/or deepening impact in the future. We also expect to see evidence of steps you have taken to ensure your product or service is financially accessible to those that need it most. Cambio Labs has a financially sustainable model that centers on delivering value to our youth. More than two thirds of our budget comes from program revenue, and all our client contracts and partner collaborations have renewed and expanded their contracts with us for 2023. From our first to second year, we have secured twice as many contracts and are in the process of pitching our social and green entrepreneurship programming for NYCHA (public housing developments in NYC) to corporate sponsors. Our revenue primarily comes from program fees that we charge partner educational organizations, which we invest in continuous innovation and improvement into how we deliver social entrepreneurial knowledge and resources. Not only are our programs always free for participants; we find ways to get them paid to engage in work-based learning opportunities. We offer a range of services to our educational partners, including curriculum development, customization of our platform, licensing agreements, course instruction, and train-the-teacher training. Our business model is built on co-designing with our partners, which allows us to be highly responsive and deliver customized solutions that meet their youths' specific needs. To enhance our fundraising capacity, we are applying to capacity-building programs and seeking grants to develop a small donor base. Our goal for this year is to secure $50,000 in grants and double peer-to-peer fundraising to $10,000 per year. With these initiatives, we aim to increase our sustainability and support programs in the long term.Tell us how the background and lived experience of the founder(s) continue to inform the evolution of your idea. Suggested word count: 200 Words Guidance: We believe solutions are best created by and for the community. It's important for founders to be proximate to their community and the identities they reflect. Additionally, we look for founders who are resilient to obstacles they face while operating with a growth mindset. You can use this space to share what experiences, qualities, and skills you bring to your venture. We expect you to elaborate on how your identity and proximity to the community continually informs decisions you make for the venture. If you need a pep talk on telling your story, refer to our Ruthless Manifesto. Growing up as the son of Latinx immigrant entrepreneurs, I witnessed the immense sacrifices they had to make to start their businesses. I couldn't help but wonder how much easier their journey would have been with guidance, support, or resources. It also taught me that, like so many in the community I belong to and serve, whatever we may lack in resources, we more than make up for with extraordinary resilience, curiosity, and tenacity. I grew up in the DMV area, which like New York, hosts extreme wealth in proximity to extreme poverty. I became single-minded in finding a sustainable solution to break cycles that handed people extreme disadvantages or extreme privilege. For me, that solution is social entrepreneurship, and I was determined to put it into the hands of youth, sooner than later. In my first social enterprise, I eliminated intermediaries for indigenous coffee cooperatives in Bolivia (my mother's home country) by creating a direct trade model where they could get the best prices for their coffee. I then sold the coffee in the cafes I opened in Shanghai. This experience taught me the tools and mindsets necessary to survive as a social entrepreneur, sometimes painfully, and I became determined to return home to share what I had learned with youth in my community. After teaching social entrepreneurship at universities and as the social innovation lead at a high school in New York, I realized that the solutions available for delivering social entrepreneurship education to BIPOC youth were piecemeal. I wanted to create a user-centered, liberatory design that leveraged technology platforms to address the lack of coaching and mentorship in BIPOC communities by BIPOC coaches and mentors. Through work-based learning solutions, I wanted to allow social entrepreneurs to thrive in ways that conventional high school infrastructure does not permit. So I started Cambio Labs. Since then, I take every opportunity to draw inspiration and learn to improve the programs and technology I deliver to reflect the enormous potential of BIPOC youth in my community.