Coherent instructional vision: When schools and community organizations have used Outschool directly, whether as grantees or as paying customers, classes have predominantly been used for additional enrichment rather than aligned to any strategic instructional vision. With this set of grants, we want to understand how Outschool supports your organization in achieving your instructional vision, whether it is in an informal, out-of-school setting or more deeply embedded within the school day. From a learner perspective, how does this connect to, enhance, or transform the reality of their broader academic experience? More structured programming: With ~10,000 Outschool teachers and a course library of ~100,000 classes, we have traditionally marketed variety and choice as a key competitive advantage. However, with our ability to work with teachers to tailor content to meet demand, we can also package sequences of classes into comprehensive programming designed to meet more specific needs, such as developing early literacy skills, mastering numbers sense, fractions or Algebra, or learning a skill such as coding. While we will continue to provide learners with some agency and choice over class selection, how might you leverage more structured programming and integrate learners’ interests and passions within it to improve academic outcomes and inspire a deeper love of learning?  Building a strong “ecosystem” of supports: A seemingly endless number of virtual content providers, synchronous and asynchronous and of varying quality, have emerged this past year to provide families with more choice than ever before. However, having too much choice can also create great confusion for families and dilute impact. We believe collaboration, rather than competition, between high-quality solution providers to create packaged solutions can help to bring greater coherence to families navigating a complex landscape and drive deeper impact. It also allows us to meet the needs of families in different contexts, whether they go back to in-person school full-time, choose a hybrid learning option, or leave the public system altogether and homeschool. ‘Are an adequate number of internet-enabled devices available for use by all students served by this grant (YES or NO)? If no, what is the maximum number of students that can be served at one time? What is your plan for ensuring that an adequate number of devices are available to your students? *YES. As part of our nonprofit mission and corporate partnership strategy, Cambio Labs ensures that all of our program participants have access to internet enabled Fire tablets. These devices are donated by Amazon NYC as one of our corporate sponsors and youth employment partners. The market value of 108 Fire tablets = $3,780.YES. The primary school we collaborate with (Comp Sci High) provides Chrome Books to students. If our program expands beyond the school, we intend to get corporate sponsorship from Google and Amazon to provide devices. Initial conversations with these corporate sponsors are already underway.Is there adequate internet connectivity available for all students served by this grant (YES or NO)? If no, what is your plan for ensuring adequate internet connectivity is available to your students? *Connectivity is varied. As we intend to serve youth residents of New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), connectivity in apartments has at times been reportedly slow. In case of connectivity issues, we will make facilities like the NYCHA management offices and community centers available to learners that are seeking speedier and more stable internet access. In the surrounding community of the Chelsea-Elliot Houses and Fulton Houses that we will serve, we can partner with the Hudson Guild or Fulton Community Center that already provides space and afterschool programs for NYCHA resident youth. We also have relationships with local City Council members in Chelsea and Astoria (target areas for our programming) and can advocate for creating spaces for learners in local libraries, government buildings, or offices with stable internet connectivity. Varied connectivity. If NO, our plan is to collaborate with local schools and community centers with stable Wifi connections and to coordinate after school learning hubs.How much funding are you requesting? Describe how you intend to use the funding. Share your instructional vision and how you think this grant supports that vision. Please be specific in terms of which students you are trying to serve (i.e. how many students, what demographics, what grades, what subjects, etc.), what their needs are, and how this grant helps you meet their needs. *Requested funding: $75,000 USD. Breakdown of usage of Funding:- $64,800 in credit for an Outschool course called Journey that teaches teams of teen entrepreneurs how to launch companies with a social or environmental mission. The Journey course was created and offered on Outschool by the Cambio Labs team. For the purposes of this initiative, the pricing of the 4.5 month entrepreneurship course will be reduced to $600 per student, and specifically target enrolling students of color that reside in low income NYCHA housing units. In total, x6 cohorts of 18 students (108 participants total) will be sponsored with this funding to attend the intensive Journey program. Course description and learning outcomes of program here: https://outschool.com/classes/journey-a-social-entrepreneurship-incubator-for-teens-to-launch-real-businesses-FteNC1hA?usid=6HSRKVyw&signup=true&utm_campaign=share_activity_link. Our intention is also to hire NYCHA resident instructors to run these Outschool courses - so “credited payments” for the Journey program will also generate income for paid instructors. - $6,000 in cash as a budget for prototyping materials and subscriptions to entrepreneurial software for program participants. During the Journey course, students create websites and prototypes of their business ideas that may require very basic physical materials, printing, software subscriptions, and website publishing and hosting. $6,000 = $200 per student team across an estimated 30 startups across the 6 cohorts of students.- $3,700 in cash as a budget for printing flyers to market to NYCHA families and for organizing the program’s final pitch event (in-person, if possible)Target student population:- 15 - 18 years old- African American, Latinx, and Indigenous students - Residing in public housing developments (NYCHA)- x3 Housing development partners: Chelsea-Elliott Houses, Fulton Houses, Woodside Houses (2 cohorts of 18 students enrolled at each housing development)Learner needs:> Access to quality entrepreneurial and financial education that will enable them to generate more income and high earning job opportunities in the future> Differentiated experiences and learning opportunities that will help them stand out to colleges and employers> A sense of agency and understanding of social entrepreneurship that can enable students to create solutions for problems in their underserved local communities> Hands on, experiential, and transformative learning opportunities that are rarely offered in low income school districts > Mentorship opportunities with industry experts and practitioners> Positive activated learning experiences that may encourage students and help them succeed academically in other classes in schoolOur instructional vision:Cambio Labs and this proposed Journey program exists to empower youth change makers, and equip high school aged students with entrepreneurial mindset and real world problem solving skills that will serve them well in a 21st century world and economy. As a nonprofit venture, our mission is to empower low income and underrepresented communities of color through free, sponsored programming. We prioritize and serve communities that have been historically marginalized from business ownership, access to capital, mentorship networks, and entrepreneurial education. Equipping a young person with entrepreneurial mindset and 21st century employment skills can change their lives forever, enabling them to access a whole new world of innovation, income earning potential, and job opportunities in the tech, STEM, and startup industries.This grant from Outschool seems perfectly aligned with our mission of serving the most high-needs and underserved youth through innovative and transformative education. Our organization, Cambio Labs, has spent years developing a social entrepreneurial curriculum and online learning portal. Outschool has developed an incredible user base and interface for parents and schools to access quality education for their learners. We also believe in radical collaboration, and would like to team up with Outschool to serve low income youth of color in NYC that have faced systemic barriers to business ownership and jobs in tech and innovation.   More details about the Journey program we intend to pilot:Journey is an incubator and launchpad for youth startups that address social and environmental problems. During the course, teen entrepreneurs will ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social missions. Learners will develop entrepreneurial and designer mindset while working with their teams to create companies that solve real problems. Students develop communication, collaboration, prototyping, creative brainstorming, pitching, and business management skills.Program participants will also receive accounts for the Journey platform, an online innovation learning platform developed by course instructor Sebastian and the Cambio Labs team. By using the Journey portal and software, program participants can rewatch video lessons, engage in project-based challenges, collaborate with their startup team members, and submit their assignments online.This Journey Program for NYCHA Youth will operate as an afterschool programHeterogeneous classrooms to connect with students from other NYCHA developments, expanding their worldview21st century skillsNYCHA instructor employment package sequences of classes into comprehensive programming designed to meet more specific needs, such as developing early literacy skills, mastering numbers sense, fractions or Algebra, or learning a skill such as coding. While we will continue to provide learners with some agency and choice over class selection, how might you leverage more structured programming and integrate learners’ interests and passions within it to improve academic outcomes and inspire a deeper love of learning? With this set of grants, we want to understand how Outschool supports your organization in achieving your instructional vision, whether it is in an informal, out-of-school setting or more deeply embedded within the school day. From a learner perspective, how does this connect to, enhance, or transform the reality of their broader academic experience?We believe collaboration, rather than competition, between high-quality solution providers to create packaged solutions can help to bring greater coherence to families navigating a complex landscape and drive deeper impact. It also allows us to meet the needs of families in different contexts, whether they go back to in-person school full-time, choose a hybrid learning option, or leave the public system altogether and homeschool. How do you see Outschool aligning with or complementing other solutions being considered or already in place, both in school and out of school?We believe collaboration, rather than competition, between high-quality solution providers to create packaged solutions can help to bring greater coherence to families navigating a complex landscape and drive deeper impact. It also allows us to meet the needs of families in different contexts, whether they go back to in-person school full-time, choose a hybrid learning option, or leave the public system altogether and homeschool. How do you see Outschool aligning with or complementing other solutions being considered or already in place, both in school and out of school?According to the Plugging In Report - created by the Center for an Urban Future and Tech:NYC - jobs in technology and IT have been among the fastest-growing occupations in NYC, and the tech sector has become the city’s most reliable source of new well-paying jobs. But even as demand for tech talent grows, too few of those good jobs are going to New Yorkers from low-income communities. Black and Latinx New Yorkers are significantly underrepresented in STEM and technology fields due to a multitude of systemic barriers in both the education system and the workforce. More than three-quarters of tech training programs accessible to low-income adults around the city are focused on basic digital literacy or introductory computer skills, with only a small number of programs offering the sort of in-depth skills training that can lead to a tech job in relatively short order. 83% of tech companies planned to increase tech hiring, but just 50% said they were confident in finding talent locally.What is the purpose of Green New Startups @ NYCHA?The purpose of the Green New Startups @ NYCHA initiative is to empower NYCHA residents to leverage their talents as entrepreneurs, cooperative business owners, sustainable industry workers, and architects of their own green future.Our initiative consists of developing and delivering a green entrepreneurship accelerator program to NYCHA residents between the ages of 18 - 26, with the objective of: a) helping them establish their own sustainable startups or cooperatives, or b) providing them with the training and mentorship to secure jobs in the environmental, innovation, or technology sectors.This proposal is for the development and financing of a pilot project to be delivered in 2022.Describe in more detail the logistics of this grant. Please be specific about when students would access Outschool classes (i.e. projected days and times), where they would access the classes (i.e. in school, after-school, at home, a combination of one or more), who would support them to create accounts, schedule classes, ensure they attend classes, etc.).Number of Housing Development Partners during Pilot: 3 (Fulton Houses, Elliott-Chelsea Houses, Woodside Houses)  Program Dates: mid September 2022 - end of January 2023Frequency of Program: weekly class/workshop, 1.5 hours in lengthTiming of Class: afterschool or a week day, starting at 4:30 or 5pm EST, or alternatively at a more flexible time on the weekendOnboarding students and teachers: the Cambio Labs team would take charge of 1) recruiting students (in close partnership with tenement association leaders at NYCHA developments who are already supportive of this program, 2) coordinating sessions to help each cohort create Outschool accounts and understand all program logistics, 3) recruit and train a Journey/Outschool instructor at each NYCHA development that would be responsible for delivering classes on a weekly basis and overseeing student attendance and performance in class. Buy-in from learners' parents will be especially important to ensure that their students attend consistently.Access to Class: all students will be provided with a tablet that is internet enabled to participate in the program. They can access the course virtually from many possible places: from home, after school at school, at a NYCHA or surrounding community center, or at the offices of one of Cambio Labs corporate sponsors and employment partners.Target Participants: 15 - 18 year old NYCHA residents of colorAverage Cohort Size: 16 - 18 participants per housing development cohortEmployment of NYCHA Instructor: 1 adult NYCHA resident per housing development will be trained to deliver the Journey course as an Outschool instructor. Training, onboarding, and payment will be managed by the Cambio Labs team.Mode of Program Instruction: VirtualNow try to speak from the perspective of the learners you hope to serve. How does Outschool connect to, enhance, or transform their broader academic experience? What would they experience in a typical day, week or month in terms of a comprehensive system of supports?Example testimonial from target learner:“By participating in the Journey program on Outschool, I get to participate in a program where I can develop real skills that can have an impact on my future and community. It has shown me that I am creative and talented, and that even if you don’t have a lot of money, you can still develop the right kinds of strategies and skills to own your own business, go to college or get a high paying job in the future. Usually in school, I don’t see how the subjects and tests that I took in school mattered for my future. I didn’t know how to apply those classes to my life. Taking this program on Outschool has been really eye opening, and has shown a lot of new opportunities and career paths that I didn’t know existed before.”Learners on this program will learn in a variety of modes that represent a departure from “conventional school” They will learn through:- Frequent Teamwork- Discussions- Presentations & Pitching - Coaching & Mentorship- Meeting Real Entrepreneurs that will Judge the Pitches- Completing Entrepreneurial Challenges- Creating Startup Assets for your Company- Interviewing Customers and Users- Community Engagement- Interpreting Feedback from Users & ExpertsStudents will also have mixed classrooms in their cohorts, with students from other housing communities across NYC. Our goal is to be intentional about creating these heterogeneous classrooms, so that learners can broaden their perspective of the world and work with other entrepreneurial youth that they would not otherwise meet.Learners will look forward to weekly after school classes and ongoing teamwork because they will be encouraged by instructors and empowered as youth innovators. They will be encouraged to dream and aspire, and this sense of worth and focus may also positively affect their academic performance in other classes in school.In this Outschool classroom learners will:- Have rich and targeted discussions- Collaborate extensively with teams- Discover new skills and sometimes working outside of their comfort zones- Embrace the iterative (and sometimes messy!) design and business testing process- Embrace their inner creative- Become comfortable with uncertainty and "failing forward"-Believe in themselves and their capacity to make a difference in the worldThis program is meant to expose students to new experiences and possibilities, and to connect their course curriculum to real community issues and mentorship and job opportunities from employers.The Journey/Outschool cohorts will have a strong sense of collaboration and community, with learners actively asking questions, sharing developments, and engaging with their digital Outschool classrooms.On this course, learners will be teamed up with 2-3 other co-founders who will join their entrepreneurial team. Students will meet and regularly work with new friends, creative teammates, and business partners. This, coupled with the mentorship of adult program instructors, can be a powerful support network for underserved youth.Learner experiencesGoals (mapping)Heterogeneous classrooms to connect with students from other NYCHA developments, expanding their worldviewDescribe any critical or complementary relationships with other partners, projects, and/or initiatives that can amplify the impact of this grant or that this grant may support. Be specific about what role(s) they would play. We are especially interested in how you plan to engage parents/families as key stakeholders for this grant.Program Coordinator & Delivery Partner Cambio Labs: Cambio Labs is an NYC-based nonprofit that creates educational tech and curricular programs that transform students into social entrepreneurs and activists. Cambio Labs was founded as a 501c3 by Sebastián Martín, a seasoned social entrepreneur, educator, and political campaigner.Role: Journey program curricular development, onboarding of students and instructors, training of instructors, general program management.NYCHA Housing Development PartnersFulton Houses: The Robert Fulton Houses is a housing development located at 421 W 17th St. in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York City. The Journey program on Outschool initiative is supported by Miguel Acevedo, Fulton Houses’ Tenement Association PresidentElliott Houses: The Elliott-Chelsea Houses is a housing development located at 430 W 26th St. in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York City. The Journey program on Outschool initiative is supported by Darlene Waters, Elliott Houses’ Tenement Association PresidentWoodside Houses: The Woodside Houses is a housing development located at 50-51 Broadway, Woodside, NY 11377 in the Astoria neighborhood of New York City. The Journey program on Outschool initiative is supported by Annie Morris, Woodside Houses’ Tenement Association PresidentRole: community engagement with NYCHA residents, helping coordinate community events and marketing of programs, offering NYCHA Management offices and community centers to host classes, finding solutions for internet connectivity issues, helping with the recruitment of NYCHA resident instructorsCorporate PartnersAmazon NYC: corporate sponsor and provider of tablets. Provider of mentors and workforce development opportunities for program alumniProspective Additional PartnersNYCHA’s Office of Resident of Economic Empowerment and Sustainability (REES)Role: to help promote programs and business development opportunities to NYCHA resident networksHudson GuildRole: to provide a space where learners in the Chelsea area could access computers and stable internet accessDescribe your organization’s capacity to successfully execute on this grant, including any capacity you need or would like to build. If possible, provide an example when you successfully implemented and integrated a new program or initiative into existing operations.Cambio Labs has already developed all of the curriculum and digital interface to successfully deliver this robust program virtually.Most importantly, we have also closely engaged the communities of Fulton Houses and Elliott Houses in Chelsea NYC by running the Community Design Lab for the past three years, and in advancing the Green New Startups @ NYCHA initiative. We have the full support of NYCHA tenement leaders to run youth-focused entrepreneurial programming, and would receive assistance from local leaders in necessary family engagement, student recruitment, and instructor recruitment to make this program successful.An example of when we successfully integrated the Journey program into an existing initiative and operation is in developing a pilot program for Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the Bronx serving students of color from low income backgrounds. In making this pilot launch successful, we coordinated with school leaders and teachers to ensure that all was in order for scheduling and delivering the program. We worked with educators and interviewed prospective students to ensure that our curricular program was accessible and appealing. We are extremely receptive to feedback from users (in this case school leaders and students) and we have made many tweaks to the program that will optimize our pilot for success.As the founder of Cambio Labs, Sebastian has extensive experience in entrepreneurship, educational innovation, and in community engagement. He will drive this initiative forward and has a proven track record of executing programs that serve underserved populations.What specific outcome(s) are you seeking to improve? What current or proposed instruments or data collection methods would you utilize to measure student learning, assess progress, and drive improvement (e.g. GPA, state assessments, interim/benchmark assessments, student perception surveys, etc.)?Key metrics and KPIs that we will track throughout the program to measure success:1. Development of student’s Innovation Abilities and 21st Century CompetenciesLearners will be asked to fill out surveys to assess their development of "innovation abilities," and to track their progress and entrepreneurial growth throughout the course. This data will be quantified and developed into graphs to more easily digest progress and success.Here is a list of what types of skills and competencies we want to track:Innovation Competencies:- Adaptability- Collaboration- Empathy - Leadership- Critical Thinking- Creativity- Design Thinking- Real-World Problem Solving- Systems Thinking- Hustle & Grit21st Century Survival Skills:- Communication Skills- Prototyping & Maker Skills- Interviewing Skills- Business Management- Project Management- Financial Planning & Literacy- Research Skills- Design Skills- Interpreting Data, Insights & Feedback2) Future Student Pathway Metrics? High School Completion? How many participants of the Program have gone on to complete High School? Does the program improve the students’ chances of graduation?? Metrics: % of total participants that graduated; graduation rates within cohort vs school-wide? College Acceptance & Completion? How many participants of the Program have gone on to further education? How many have successfully completed college?? Metrics: % of total participants that have gone to college; college acceptance rates within cohort vs school-wide; % of college accepted students that completed college? Other metrics: % of first generation college students (the first in their families to go to college; % of Ivy or top tier school college acceptance rates? Employability & Income? How many participants of the Program have secured jobs with livable wages? In what sectors and at what income levels are alumni acquiring jobs?? Additional data points: timing of job acquisition (directly out of high school or after completing college?); periods of unemployment or job turnover (maintenance of jobs for over 6 months); if applicable, reasons for loss of job; industry or sector of job acquired; average salary level in industry or sector oj job acquired; entry level vs. intermediate level job acquisition; salary level of Program participant  ? Metrics: % of total participants that have acquired jobs, categorized by amount of time that it took to acquire job; average frequency and duration times of unemployment of alumni cohort vs. control group/other students that attended same high school; % of Cambio alumni that acquired jobs in the investment, design, technology, social impact, public policy, startup or innovation sectors vs. control group/other students that attended same high school; average income of Cambio alumni vs. control group/other students that attended same high school? Entrepreneurship? How many participants of the Program have gone on to establish their own business?? Additional data points: amount of time since high school or college completion before establishing business; funds acquired to launch business; maturity (years in operation) of company; size of staff and amount of vulnerable low-income employees hired; location of company; level of revenue; tax revenue generated; collaborations with other businesses or sectors established; problem area company is addressing; social impact of company created; green or environmental impact;  sector or industry of company? Metrics: % of total alumni that have started businesses vs. control group/other students that attended same high school; % of increase in employment rates or tax revenue increase in the location of business establishment