1. Tell us in your own words (1) why you want to be a Camelback Fellow (2) what you will bring to the #camelbackfam and (3) what you are looking to get out of the Fellowship. NOTE: You may respond to this question with one of the following: a written response, upload an audio recording, OR a video recording.Required Duration: up to 3 minutes or 200 words.       If submitting an audio or video file,  label using the following format: firstname_lastname_whycbvGuidance: We’re looking to understand how you align with Camelback’s mission, vision, and Fellowship programming. Tell us what you’re excited about learning, contributing, and challenging. Similarly, you can name specific venture needs you want to address during the Fellowship.Hello, my name is Sebastián Martín, founder of Cambio Labs. I am excited to apply for the Camelback Fellowship because our mission aligns deeply with Camelback's focus on social entrepreneurship, equity, and community empowerment.I want to be a Camelback Fellow because I believe in providing holistic solutions to under-resourced New Yorkers by connecting them to resources, support, and technology designed specifically for their communities. At Cambio Labs, we've developed the Journey Platform—a gamified digital learning environment that makes education accessible and engaging for underserved communities. Our programs, such as the Social Entrepreneurship Incubator, Startup NYCHA, and Cambio Solar, empower youth and vulnerable populations to become designers of solutions to the challenges they face, facilitating systemic change.I bring to the #camelbackfam my experience in building scalable, tech-driven solutions for social impact. Our platform is designed with and for educators, social impact organizations, and low-income learners, addressing the gap where technology often overlooks these communities. We incorporate playful, gamified learning approaches, as supported by research from the Brookings Institution and Science magazine, which have shown significant improvements in problem-solving, creativity, and collaboration. Through deep partnerships with other CBOs, we are also able to provide paid internship opportunities, too.From the Fellowship, I seek mentorship and strategic guidance to scale our impact nationally, ensuring more communities benefit from accessible, effective entrepreneurship education. Together, we can build a more just and inclusive economy.