Describe the scientific innovation you are working on (150 words max)This question is required.*We create transformative, culturally-competent business programs for youth, which we deliver with the help of a gamified learning management system that we designed, called the Journey platform.  Our curriculum is designed to empower youth to leverage technology to design and launch impactful businesses to solve issues in their communities. We uniquely combine a few different elements: (i) a gamified learning platform that combines multimedia content, prompts & challenges + leverages coaching & real world prizes from ecosystem partners to incentivize learners; (ii) the gamified learning platform combined with social entrepreneurship & green innovation content, (iii) the gamified learning platform that is customizable as a white label product + can integrate into existing learning management systems like Canvas and Blackboard + is leveraging blockchain technology to issue NFT certifications for users and other digital tokens that may represent financial earnings, equity, and decision making power within the organization (elements of the broader DAO system).What is the community- or society-level challenge does your innovation seek to address? Why are you motivated to address that challenge?Our innovation addresses the educational and opportunity barriers faced by low-income, BIPOC youth to attain digital literacy and business education to become founders of organizations and businesses to help their communities. Systemic underinvestment in education, outdated curricula, and unequal access to technology exacerbate this issue further. With 92% of U.S. jobs requiring digital skills, it's essential to equip youth for the future job market. Our passion is rooted in our conviction that all youth, regardless of zip code or income level, should have access to economic opportunity, business ownership, and the tools of innovation. Our team, composed of social entrepreneurs and educators who are first-generation children of immigrant entrepreneurs, deeply understands the challenges and strengths within our communities. This personal connection fuels our motivation to create transformative educational experiences that empower our communities to become founders and innovators. [We are uniquely equipped and determined to break down systemic barriers to capital, information, and networks, enabling our community members to become founders and innovators.]Which category does your scientific innovation fall under?This question is required.*How have you funded your scientific innovation to date? (select as many as applicable)This question is required.*Have you encountered any challenges or barriers around funding your scientific innovation? If so, please describe. (up to 150 words) This question is required.*As a team with only two full-time employees, we have managed to attain results that have led to a doubling in demand for our programming in our first two years, however we lack funding to invest further into the development of our platform. Most of our funding has come from sales and partnerships; and currently less than 14% of our revenue comes from grants.  We would benefit tremendously in guidance in identifying potential partners and funding sources that align with our values and mission. This may include grant writing assistance, network building, and strategies for maintaining program integrity while expanding accessibility. We would like our programs to continue to be delivered by culturally competent instructors from the community. We would benefit from support in strategic recruitment.Other than securing funding for your innovation, what other challenges have you encountered in moving forward with your scientific innovation? (max 150 words) This question is required.*We also seek intellectual property protection for all of the research and development that has gone into the development of our curriculum and platform.