What is your organization's mission statement? Cambio Labs is committed to empowering underestimated youth and adults by providing access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities, and generational wealth. We partner with schools, youth organizations, nonprofits, businesses, and government agencies to create transformative educational programs that equip students with the skills and mindset needed to become founders of socially and environmentally responsible businesses and organizations. Our mission is to build a more equitable and sustainable future by empowering and upskilling the next generation of purpose-driven leaders and changemakers.Tell us a brief history about your organization. Cambio Labs was founded in 2021 by social entrepreneur and educator, Sebastián Martín, to develop and deliver social entrepreneurship programs for youth in underserved communities. Our nonprofit delivered its first social entrepreneurship program for high school students in 2021 in partnership with Prep for Prep, NYC-based nonprofit that creates educational opportunities for young leaders of color. To further our mission, we hired high school students to develop the Journey platform, a gamified learning platform that contains our curriculum in the form of multimedia lessons, project based challenges, and a point system where users can exchange virtual currency for rewards like mentorship and career development opportunities, professional coaching and workshops, and small business development services. In 2022, we piloted the Journey platform while delivering our flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program to high school students at Comp Sci High, our first school partner based in the South Bronx.During the summer of 2022, Cambio Labs acquired contracts for 5 additional cohorts of our programs with a variety of partners, including other NYC nonprofits, SYEP worksites, Comp Sci High, and the Mayor’s Office of San Francisco.  We went from serving 15 students during the school year to graduating over 115 students over the summer- all students of color, and predominantly from low-income backgrounds. We have collected positive survey and interview data from students and instructors, and all summer partners from 2022 collaborations that have agreed to re-engage Cambio Labs in 2023. What is our connection to Chelsea and CB4? Through founder Sebastián Martín’s previous work as the Social Innovation Lead at the Avenues school, he got to collaborate with various community based organizations in Chelsea, including Penn South, Holy Apostles, Chelsea Elliot Houses, and Fulton Houses. In his Community Design Incubator course, students analyzed CB4 issues - including reading District Needs Statements and speaking with CB4 District Manager Jesse Bodine - and worked with community members to co-create solutions for local community issues. In 2018, founder Sebastián partnered with Art Connects, Artolution, and Miguel Acevedo, Tenant Association President of Fulton Houses, to create two murals painted by youth, that represented their visions for the future and their local community. See our mural televised on news channel NY1 here: https://www.ny1.com/nyc/manhattan/news/2019/06/01/teens-in-chelsea-unify-and-unveil-public-art-murals-This is how Miguel Acevedo and Sebastián got to know each other and work together in Chelsea. Cambio Labs is now very interested in running business incubator courses and creating a social entrepreneurship ecosystem at NYCHA. Our goal is to pilot Startup NYCHA at Fulton Houses in partnership with the Tenant Association, Fulton youth and residents, and with the help of Fulton community member and educator, Oscar Pagoada.What services (programs, projects) does your organization currently provide? Cambio Labs provides educational technology and curricular programs that turn students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. Cambio Labs has three primary learning solutions, all of which are designed in collaboration with community partners.Programs:(i)  The digital learning platform, Journey:Journey represents the cutting edge of dynamic online learning, while still being rooted in the best practices for project-based and experiential learning. On Journey, participants consume multimedia lessons, complete prompts, and complete team-based challenges as they launch their ventures. Users of Journey are rewarded with “gemstones”, which they are able to accumulate and cash in for prizes like workshops and services that are provided by our corporate and global partners and volunteers.  These workshops are geared towards catalyzing the ventures of participants, and creating a sense of community and connection.The Journey platform acts as a gateway to a broader ecosystem of partner support, providing access to economic and job opportunities, mentorship programs, and other resources. Our technology platform represents a scalable solution for automating and standardizing our entrepreneurial curriculum, while providing instructors easy- to-use teaching tools and guides. Journey will be a critical tool in enabling us to run programs across multiple NYCHA communities.(ii) The Social Entrepreneurship Incubator is designed for social entrepreneurs and teachers, by teachers with actual social entrepreneurship experience. Cambio Labs has created a robust curriculum with durable employment and entrepreneurship skill-building, supported by a diverse ecosystem of support for new social entrepreneurs to thrive. This ecosystem is built by connecting students with leaders and mentors in the tech, sustainability, and entrepreneurship fields through a platform that can catalyze their careers and future ventures.Cambio Labs' signature program creates a learning experience tailored to different types of learners. Our program invites feedback and self-assessment from participants and program partners after each session. Students who graduate from the program have the opportunity to become co-facilitators, alumni mentors, and paid Cambio Labs interns. (iii) The Green Workforce Development Program curriculum is co-designed with multiple community-based organizations and supported by government and corporate partners. In 2022, we collaborated with the RETI Center in Red Hook, Brooklyn to deliver the Roof RETI Solar Installation Training Program, a solar workforce development collaboration supported by Amazon and the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSDERA). Adult program participants are able to use the Journey platform to complete the course, and after course completion, they are connected to paid internships opportunities through Good Shepherd Services (GSS), attain OSHA 40 Certification and GPRO Certification through the Green Urban Council, and visit real solar work sites through our partnership with Brooklyn SolarWorks. Last but not least, our program participants obtain a Green Social Entrepreneurship Certification from Cambio Labs.  Cambio Labs aims to capture longitudinal data from alumni communities by creating communities and connections in-person and in the digital realm. Our Cambio Community includes participants, teachers, principals, district leaders, and other stakeholders involved in co-designing our programs and platforms. What are 2 accomplishments your organization has achieved in the past 5 years? Here are two accomplishments we’d like to share with you.1) Cambio Labs piloted several unique programs powered by cross-sectoral collaborations. An example of a project that spanned across the corporate, government, nonprofit, and school sectors was our 2022 Green Workforce Development Program. To make this happen, we partnered with nonprofit RETI Center to recruit students from the social service organization Good Shepherd Services. We taught our program at a local public school where we invited speakers from solar companies, startups, and Red Hook Houses.  We received funding from corporate sponsor Amazon to develop a customized Journey platform to deliver this unique solar program. This model of cross sectoral changemaking and collaboration is an accomplishment we are extremely proud of, and hope to do more of in the future.2) Second, we were able to launch the Journey Platform, a gamified learning learning platform that blends best practices for online and in-person learning, and offers a supportive ecosystem by connecting students with leaders and mentors in the tech, sustainability, and entrepreneurship field through a platform that can catalyze their careers and future ventures. This was a major accomplishment that took lots of prototyping, coding, and user testing to create. We are proud to say that the latest iteration of the Journey platform has launched in 2023 and is being tested and improved upon by Comp Sci High students in the South Bronx!  How many unduplicated participants has your organization served from Jul 1, 2022 to date? 199 Students served to date2021Prep for Prep 2021: 30 students2022Comp Sci High Winter 2022: 16Prep for Prep 2022:- Institute for Entrepreneurship: 38- 1 teacher hired, 1 TA trained- Entrepreneurship Camp: 20- 1 teacher hired, 1 TA trainedOFA 2022 Cohort 1: 13- 2 teachers hired and trainedOFA 2022 Cohort 2: 25- 2 teachers hired and trainedRETI 2022 Cohort 1: 13- 1 teacher hired and trainedRETI 2022 Cohort 2: 16Comp Sci High Summer 2022: 142023Comp Sci High Winter 2023: 14157 served].Of your participant pool, how many are (or will be) residents in the Chelsea/Hudson Yards/Hell's Kitchen areas (Community Board 4)?*Please provide a numerical value (not a percentage)30 residents. Has your organization received a grant from West Side Community Fund in the past?  (Please note, past WSCF winners may re-apply with a new project, after submitting a mid-year or final report for the previous project.) ? No, we have not received a grant from WSCF in the pastSection 3: Information about your Proposed Program/Project Please note that these questions relate to the specific program or project for which you are submitting this application, and not to your organization as a whole.  What is the name of your proposed program/project?Startup NYCHA What type of grant are you applying for?? Large grant of over $5,000  What is the total amount you are requesting? $150,000 Please identify whether this program/project serves a specific population. (check all that apply)? Immigrants/ Communities of Color? NYCHA Residents? Youth What is the need you are addressing through this program/project? How did you identify that this need exists? History of collaborations in ChelseaAssessed need through programs in other low income communities, by addressing the need through other Cambio programs in other communities, by seeing inflation and hard times of working class families in entrepreneurs, through my current part time  work as Program Facilitator at Communitas America:Gentrification, stratification, extreme inequality and a disintegration of social fabricCambio Labs is on a mission to disrupt the education system and tackle the systemic exclusion of low-income and BIPOC students from wealth creation opportunities by equipping them with the skills, networks, and tools to succeed in the current economy. We have validated this need through extensive research about the problem, and through the real world promotion and execution of our programs. Each year, 1.2 million high school students in the US drop out of school, and 1 in 3 BIPOC students attend schools that graduate less than 60% of their students, known as "dropout factories." By pairing students with mentors and coaches from the BIPOC community, Cambio Labs provides culturally-informed support beyond the traditional high school infrastructure by acknowledging the angst students feel about systemic issues and channeling it into the creation of business solutions that are empowering. We have now served over 150 students and have received positive survey feedback, testimonials, and data that confirms that students felt like Cambio Labs programs filled a gap in their education, and that they felt better equipped to pursue jobs and acquire wealth.Schools are failing to teach durable skills to succeed in the job market, such as problem-solving, leadership, communication, critical thinking, teamwork, adaptability, and creativity. A review of 82 million job postings in 2021 found that 70% of requested skills were durable skills, and that 69% of businesses reported difficulty hiring qualified talent. This was confirmed through our own experience by the fact that our students had struggled to find paid internship and job opportunities. To ensure that under-resourced students thrive upon graduating, Cambio Labs connects students to valuable social networks among mentors and employers, and strives to place them in paid internship opportunities.A report by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that Black and Latinx children are less likely to move up the income ladder than their white peers, even when accounting for income. Cambio Labs seeks to address this lack of upward mobility by connecting program participants with immediate paid internship opportunities and connecting them throughout the program with a wide network of entrepreneurs who contribute their services, knowledge and support as part of our digital learning platform.  A recession hits the most vulnerable hardest, especially when it comes to employment.  Already, unemployment rates in public housing developments in New York City are three times higher than the citywide average, with 20% of residents being unemployed compared to 7% in the city as a whole. The median income for households in public housing developments in New York City is $24,000 per year, compared to the citywide median income of $71,000 per year (Source: The Furman Center).  According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, the rate of business creation in lower-income areas is significantly lower than the rest of NYC. Providing support for business creation and strengthening durable skills is one way that residents can create employment and wealth for their communities.Residents of public housing developments in New York City have a significantly lower level of educational attainment, with only 51% of adults having a high school diploma compared to 86% in the city as a whole (Source: The Furman Center). The need for culturally competent education, designed for and by the community that provides immediate access to employment, apprenticeship and certifications is paramount to addressing the systemic inequity in our public education.We validated these needs in the Chelsea area by speaking with Fulton residents, community leaders like Miguel Acevedo, Chelsea based educators like  Oscar Pagoada, and by reading reports like the District Needs Statement released by Community Board 4.  Provide a summary of the proposed program or project. Highlight partnership with program partner MiguelOur project is called Startup NYCHA, an initiative to bring social entrepreneurship programs and business development resources to NYCHA complexes across New York City. The objective of our program is to create access to entrepreneurial education and resources so that NYCHA youth and adult residents can launch their own companies, gain access to employment and internship opportunities, and launch community-based projects that can also solve local social and environmental problems.Our proposal is to run our pilot program at Fulton Houses in partnership with Miguel Acevedo and the Tenant Association, and hopefully in partnership with Hudson Guild and corporate sponsors and employers. Our plan for 2023 is to introduce Cambio Labs’ flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program to Fulton youth, running an 8-12 week intensive entrepreneurship program where student entrepreneurs will form teams, analyze local social issues, and launch real business ventures that can both generate wealth and address local community needs. Results of this pilot program will include:? 20-30 students will graduate and develop competencies that can help them gain employment or launch their own businesses? Students build social capital as they are coached and mentored by professionals in the fields of finance, entrepreneurship, technology, and more? Connecting program graduates to paid internship opportunities? Training and employment of a NYCHA resident to become the ongoing instructor of our programs? Funding that will be awarded to the best startup initiatives? All program participants will also have access to our Journey platform and alumni community, where they can benefit from entrepreneurial curriculum, resources, career opportunities, and prizes for the rest of their lives.After a successful pilot, our vision is to extend our program opportunities to adults, and to work with the 18+ population of NYCHA to help upskill, employ, and empower underemployed adults. NYCHA residents that live in Section 9 housing can also qualify for federal grants as entrepreneurs, as well as preferential contracts for serving and refurbishing and repairing NYHCA.We want to pilot our program at Fulton Houses in Chelsea, but ultimately our goal is to bring entrepreneurship programs and incubator spaces to NYCHA developments all over the city. Through our robust and standardized learning platform, and an interconnected network of community projects and instructors, we want to build the infrastructure for a social  innovation ecosystem entrepreneurial movement across NYCHA and beyond.—--------------------------[By establishing incubator spaces at each location, we will foster an interconnected network of entrepreneurs, innovators, and programs that will enable cross-community collaboration and access to a wide range of resources. Dedicated incubator spaces would provide resources and support for individuals to develop and launch socially impactful business ventures, by providing residents with access to entrepreneurial training, networking opportunities, funding, and a platform to create positive change in their community.Through this initiative, we will provide access to an investment fund that will support the growth of high-potential ventures and help them transition into investment accelerators for further scaling. Moreover, this project will ensure community management and ownership of various organizations, making sure that these initiatives remain rooted in the communities they serve. The goal of this project is to provide a platform for the underrepresented, low-income residents of NYCHA developments to create and build businesses that will have a positive impact on their lives and the broader community.The proposed project aims to create a robust ecosystem of social entrepreneurship and innovation across every NYCHA development in New York City, for residents to be able to create employment, generate wealth, while solving community issues in their community.By establishing incubator spaces at each location, we will foster an interconnected network of entrepreneurs, innovators, and programs that will enable cross-community collaboration and access to a wide range of resources. Dedicated incubator spaces would provide resources and support for individuals to develop and launch socially impactful business ventures, by providing residents with access to entrepreneurial training, networking opportunities, funding, and a platform to create positive change in their community.Through this initiative, we will provide access to an investment fund that will support the growth of high-potential ventures and help them transition into investment accelerators for further scaling. Moreover, this project will ensure community management and ownership of various organizations, making sure that these initiatives remain rooted in the communities they serve. The goal of this project is to provide a platform for the underrepresented, low-income residents of NYCHA developments to create and build businesses that will have a positive impact on their lives and the broader community.Mentorship community building employee engagement, bringing in corporate] Q32. How many unduplicated (i.e., unique) participants do you expect to serve through the proposed program/project? 30 for pilot program How will you conduct outreach to the target population? 1. In partnership with Miguel Acevedo, we will use personal outreach and word of mouth with NYCHA residents.  We would like to present our project at Tenant Association meetings to garner interest.2. Canvassing NYCHA and Social Media Outreach: We can also go door-to-door with flyers for Fulton residents with QR codes and links to social media and websites hosting more information.       3. Delivery of Community Design Workshops, where we intend to invite and gather input and feedback from NYCHA residents (youth, parents, and community members) about how we should design and execute our program in a manner that is culturally-relevant and responsive to resident needs.-Involvement of graduating volunteers-Information sessions to co-design the program that offer compensation for their input in the design processHow will you measure the success of your proposed program/project? Number and demographics of participants: We would like to measure the reach and impact of our programming and to ensure that we are serving and empowering our target demographic of youth in underserved communities.Completion rate: We want to gauge the engagement and value to participants over time.Employment rate: By securing paid internship and apprenticeship opportunities for participants by leveraging funding through partners at the state and corporate level, we seek to measure the number of jobs that have been created. We will also measure employment rate (ratio of jobs attained as a proportion of applications following the program’s completion.  Revenue generated: The revenue generated by program graduates, either through their own businesses or through employment, can be a good indicator of the program's economic impact.Social impact: The social impact of the program, such as the number of jobs created, the number of businesses started, or the number of people served, will be the most valuable metric to measure the program's broader impact on the community.Investment funds raised: Through our program, we seek to build bridges between communities and to measure the amount of support for creating an empowered, greener, and more caring community.Improvement in Durable Skills: Feedback from program participants can provide valuable insights into the program's effectiveness and areas for improvement. Collecting feedback through surveys or interviews can help to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the program and make necessary adjustments.Corporate Sponsor and Employee engagement: in the spirit of cross-sectoral partnership, we will measure how many sponsors organizations’ employees are engaged in volunteering and mentoring programs for our students, and how much funding and other in-kind support is offered from corporate donors and sponsors.# of businesses developed# of businesses that receive funding# of mentorship relationships# of durable skills added# of jobs obtained# of paid internship and apprenticeships Please state 2 key objectives and corresponding projected goals you aim to achieve. Include any metrics to evaluate your program (e.g., number of unduplicated people the project will serve or benefit, average workshop attendance, improved performance on tests, etc.). Use the following format: Objective 1: Increased access to healthy foodsProjected goal 1: At least 50 families per month receive farm fresh groceries Objective 2: Increased school attendanceProjected goal 2: Students' average daily attendance will increase by at least 25% from the beginning to the end of the school year  Q36. Objective 1xObjective 1: Increased placement of Program Participants in employment, internship, or business ownership opportunities.Projected goal 1: at least 75% of the participants from our program will secure investment, a job or paid internship during the completion of our program.Objective 2: Increased employment of NYCHA residents through Cambio Instructor rolesProjected goal 2: at least 1 NYCHA resident is interviewed and employed as a Cambio Instructor during the completion of our program.Objective 2: Number of mentorship relationships developed through corporate and community partnersProjected goal 2: Each participant experiences at least two unique mentoring and coaching experiences with a mentor or corporate volunteer Q38. Objective 2x Q39. Projected goal for objective 2x Q40.Will you have corporate volunteer opportunities available for this proposed program/project? ? Yes Q41.What are the corporate volunteer opportunities that may be available for this program or project?The Cambio Coaches ProgramStudies show that personal mentorship and coaching has immense benefits for learners and their ability to process information and complete projects. Even in our digital world, learners often need an expert coach or mentor to contextualize learning, to differentiate it, and to offer their experience to help them succeed. We created the Cambio Coaches program not only to help our participants better develop their social ventures, but to also create opportunities for professional exchange, to receive and interpret feedback, and to develop social capital with professionals that could lead to future internship and job opportunities.  For our entrepreneurs, seeing mentors from their own community is especially impactful, and we encourage coaches of color to apply and would welcome introductions to coaches who may be interested.Perks & Rewards Program Contributors on our PlatformStudents in our programs receive access to our Journey platform - a gamified learning platform where students can earn points for completing lessons and challenges - which can be cashed in for exciting perks and rewards! Are you interested in packaging your know-how, services, or products as a reward to incentivize student entrepreneurs to complete their next milestone? This can look like contributing access to a software program or publication, providing a training session in a corporate volunteer’s area of expertise, offering resume writing office hours, or in-kind goods like hardware for students participation in the program or the ventures they create.Paid Internships to Cambio StudentsThe benefits of work-based learning; the lack of access to employment opportunities for under-resourced youth, especially in the design, technology, investment, and startup industries. Help diversify innovation industries, and become part of a pipeline to empower underemployed youth from our pool of qualified Cambio alumni.Whether you are a startup or mature organization, we are looking for a variety of employment opportunities across a range of sectors. All experiences are valuable for our students, and the Cambio Labs team will work to ensure the best fit for organizations and students by assessing preferences and qualifications through program results, surveys, and interviews. Introductions, interviews, and approval of employer partners are a prerequisite before job placement.Employee Engagement Programs1. Integrating Financial Literacy or Business Skill Development Programming into our platformIn this collaboration, a corporate partner will share its curriculum in financial literacy with a digital educational platform that supports underserved social entrepreneurs. The educational platform will provide access to this curriculum for entrepreneurs who may not have had access to high-quality financial education resources previously.This collaboration aims to make financial education more accessible to underserved communities and provide the tools and knowledge needed to start and grow successful ventures. Corporate partners can contribute to this effort by sharing their financial skills and expertise in a way that supports social entrepreneurship and economic development.For example, banking partners may find this collaboration particularly beneficial for the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), which requires banks to provide investment and lending services to low- and moderate-income communities. By sharing their financial literacy curriculum with the digital educational platform, banking partners can help fulfill their CRA requirements and support the development of underserved communities.Overall, this collaboration is a win-win situation for both the corporate partner and the social entrepreneurship community. Corporate partners can contribute to the development of underserved communities while promoting their financial skills and expertise, and social entrepreneurs can access valuable resources to help them succeed in their ventures.2. Speed Coaching EventsWe are looking for corporate partners who are interested in designing speed coaching events for social entrepreneurship participants. These events will provide entrepreneurs with half-day experiences to immerse them in the corporate partner's services, products, and work culture.Corporate partners (and our entrepreneurs) will have the opportunity to showcase their expertise and introduce entrepreneurs to their field. They can provide coaching sessions in areas where they have particular expertise and offer insights and advice to the entrepreneurs.In addition to focusing on their areas of expertise, we encourage corporate partners to consider offering coaching sessions in fields that the entrepreneurs may not have been exposed to. This will help entrepreneurs broaden their understanding of the business world and potentially discover new areas of interest.Overall, a speed coaching event provides a unique opportunity for corporate partners to share their knowledge and experience with social entrepreneurship programs. It's a chance for entrepreneurs to gain valuable insights and advice while also learning about new fields.Q42.How often could volunteers engage in the proposed program or project (e.g., daily, weekly, bi-monthly)?Ongoing weekly engagements. We will have several programs on our platform going on at the same time.  How many volunteers would you need per day/session of the proposed program or project?Speed coaching 5-10 stations are idea for a group of 2; each cohort offers on average 25-30 perks and rewards (workshops or one-on-one coaching)