*Briefly tell us what the applying organization does and how it is additive to the local community.(4000 character maximum) 2780Cambio Labs was created in 2021 as a response to education inequities that limit the ability of low income youth across New York City to create businesses, advocate for their communities, and find gainful employment. Developed by a team of social entrepreneurs, our program is designed to adapt to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our students are prepared to excel in their future careers or social ventures.We create transformative business programs for youth to become founders, which we deliver with the help of a gamified learning management system that we designed, called the Journey platform.  Our goal? To empower youth to leverage technology to design and launch impactful businesses to solve issues in their communities. Over the course of 6 months, participants work in teams to design business solutions for issues they care about in their communities.  With the support of our digital learning platform, we deliver an immersive experience where participants form teams to tackle societal challenges, fostering skills in empathy, stakeholder analysis, and problem-solving. The curriculum emphasizes hands-on community engagement to test their assumptions and validate their solutions. In preparation for a final pitch before a panel of judges of investors and entrepreneurs, students fine-tune their marketing and sustainability strategies, learn to develop a viable business model, and understand revenue and cost structures. Most importantly, as a team, they practice effective presentation skills and learn self-advocacy.  We also teach students about leveraging artificial intelligence, blockchain, and digital no-code prototypes to close the digital divide that excludes our communities from building intergenerational wealth.Our platform allows us to meet our learners where they are, provide live feedback, and provide an engaging and gamified learning experience, where they “earn-to-learn” by completing challenges and earning “gemstones” that they can “cash in” for time with industry leaders and expert mentors to strengthen their ventures in our digital marketplace. The problem we are addressing is the education and opportunity disparity that disproportionately affects low-income youth, particularly BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) communities. Systemic underinvestments in education systems, outdated curricula, and unequal technology access are core to this challenge. A recent report shows that in 2023, 92% of jobs across every industry analyzed in the U.S. required digital skills - a number that will continue to grow. Workers who qualify for jobs requiring even one digital skill can earn an average of 23% more than those in jobs with no digital skills. Thus, it’s imperative to equip BIPOC students with the digital literacy and skills required to enter the future job market.Lack of access to entrepreneurial education, capital and networking opportunities greatly hinder BIPOC communities, who comprise less than 30% of the entrepreneurial workforce in the U.S.Meanwhile, the majority of skills that employers are hiring for—such as leadership, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity—are not adequately developed from school alone, with employers reporting that less than 25% of recent graduates are qualified for entry-level roles. Work-based learning opportunities are crucial in preparing students for entry-level roles, and also expose students to professional networking opportunities which will help propel their careers later on. Our work focuses on rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and work-based learning opportunities, as well as equipping them with the necessary digital skills and literacy which are critical for securing higher-paying jobs. By doing so, we hope to challenge and change the systemic barriers that have long hindered equal educational and professional opportunities for BIPOC communities*Provide a brief summary of the proposed use of funds.(4000 character maximum)The $95,000 we are requesting would allow us to deliver our 6-month accelerator program, StartUp NYCHA, for twenty five NYCHA youths and rising entrepreneurs.  The budget includes the development of a tech for social innovation incubator program, the hiring of a coding instructor, and bringing together the best of our programs; leveraging technology to empower youth with business development knowledge, self-advocacy, and the latest in artificial intelligence and coding.  This investment is expected to catalyze significant positive change by empowering NYCHA youth with entrepreneurial skills and immediate workforce development opportunities.Curricular and Content Development & Customization: $15,000 for program development and customization for NYCHA residents.  Journey 2.0 Platform Development, Licensing, Updates, and Support: $5,000 allocated for technical support related to our learning management system.Pilot Program Manager & Instructor (Cambio Staff): $12,000 for staff dedicated to managing the weekly program, coordinating learning experiences, and facilitating incubator sessionsStipends for Speakers: $1,000 for stipends for guest speakers to offer expert insights and enhance the learning experience.Stipend for NYCHA Resident Instructor in Training: $5,000 as a salary for a NYCHA resident, creating the foundation for a longer term employment opportunity.Support Staff and Administrative Overhead: $3,000 for miscellaneous support staff to assist with program administration and operations.Stipends for Participants: $32,000 to fund stipends for internship opportunities with real employers and startups upon program completion.Final Pitch Competition: $1,000 for hosting a culminating event to showcase participant achievements and business pitches.Budget for Awards and Platform-Based Prizes for Participants: $4,000 for perks and rewards to motivate participants throughout the program, as well as final prizes.Supplies & Miscellaneous Program Materials: $2,000 for basic classroom materials and supplies necessary for program execution.*What are some examples of tangible outcomes the applying organization had in the local community?Please include some clear data points that showcase the organization’s impact.(4000 character maximum)Since Cambio Labs’ launch in 2021, we have delivered 25 programs and provided business training for 401 BIPOC youth and adults. Our participants have conceptualized and presented 102 innovative social businesses, with 92% reporting marked improvements in key skills like public speaking, innovation, and teamwork. In just two years, Cambio Labs has secured $106,798 in stipends, with 80% of their participants being beneficiaries, underscoring their commitment to rewarding effort and fostering growth.84% of our income is from program revenue. In the last year, demand for our programs has doubled.  *How does the applying organization seek the community’s input to inform programming?(4000 character maximum)Cambio Labs collaborates closely with community partners to develop all of its programs, from our digital learning platform Journey, our flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program, to StartUp NYCHA.We use an iterative process, where community feedback is actively invited and integrated into programming.  In the case of Startup NYCHA, we were invited to present at Tenement Association Meetings, tabled at 4 NYCHA Community Events and received 60+ Sign Ups for Startup NYCHA, expressing interest in the program. Intergenerational demand with ~ 20 youth and ~40 adults signed up.We have received community support from residents, tenement leaders, and REES. We have received funding from the West Side Community Fund and support about funding and resources from the Department of Strategy and Innovation at NYCHA to help kick off this initiative.In November 2023, we hosted our first Startup NYCHA workshop to co-design the program with residents, who told us what they needed for a successful entrepreneurship program. Accordingly, we went to work, and in early April, we launched a program for 30 rising entrepreneurs with residents from all 4 boroughs at Fulton Houses.   *How many people did the applying organization serve in 2023? How many people does the applying organization plan to serve in 2024 and in 2025?(4000 character maximum)In 2023, we served 209 participants.  This year, we are looking at 400 individual participants.  In 2025, our hope is to scale to over 1,000.*To the best of your ability, explain how the leadership and staff reflect the communities the applying organization serves.(4000 character maximum)In reflecting on Cambio Labs’ commitment to diversifying the entrepreneurial landscape and providing culturally competent curricula, all full-time staff identify as BIPOC, the majority of Cambio Labs’ board members are Latinx, and Cambio Labs is Latinx-founded by and continues to be Latinx-led.*Share a testimonial from a client or constituent utilizing the applying organization’s services.(4000 character maximum)“This is where my future could lie. I think it's very important because even entrepreneurs now didn't have this class to give them a head start. So I think with this head start, I'll be good.”- Rakeem G, The Bronx, Grade 10"Personally, I have learned a lot more about teamwork. To have good teamwork, everyone needs a part and has to do work. Our group had good teamwork, and we had someone to keep us together when we got off track. I also learned a lot about the things needed to create a business and the money that goes into each part of creating one as well."-Alejandro C., Manhattan Grade 10“ My interest in social entrepreneurship has grown exponentially and the particular reason for that is I always think about starting a form of business but I didn't know what kind, and Cambio Labs gave me that experience of actually doing “ business” in a way, an experience that impacted was when we had to go out in public to talk to strangers and ask them various questions relating to our start up, and we also had to go to shelters, and  the the particular reason why I say this is because  I have a really big fear of talking to people I don't know in general, and doing that impacted me by kinda pushing me through my fears, this course would definitely effect what I do in the future because now I come to realize I actually care for people more than I used to.-Seydina K, Brooklyn, Grade 11"I have developed many skills over the summer, some of them being how to create a pitch and pitch a pitch, along with turning any idea into something that someone else can believe they can benefit from. I learned how to work with a team and bring positive energy. I learned how to code HTML and CSS, that was personally my favorite part of the summer."-Chase A, Manhattan, Grade 11I just see myself trying to solve my own problems a lot more. I honestly taught me how to like dig deeper into my brain instead of just thinking inside the box like think more outside the box because anything is possible. Really. If you really believe in something, you should keep going. Regardless of how many failures or attempts you have, you should just keep going because if it's something you really believe in, it can happen.-Charisma S, the Bronx, Grade 9Over this incubator I have gained and improved on my skill of communication and collaboration with my peers. Something that I would have never done before as I normally prefer working by myself and reliable on myself. But working on this entrepreneurial internship I learned how to communicate what I want without getting frustrated when someone doesn't understand what I'm saying. I truly can say I came a long way from where I was in the beginning. I did not only learn skills, I also learned about things in entrepreneurship that I never knew about. For example, before this course I did not know the difference between a non profit and a for profit and when I  learned the difference it was nowhere near to what I was thinking it was. This internship has brought me far.-Sierra J, Brooklyn, Grade 11"Over the summer, I’ve developed my coding skills in Python, HTML & CSS. I’ve also learned how to create a business and develop an idea into fruition, and gotten to know how marketing and outreach plays a vital role in creating a business. From this program, I think I am looking at the world differently. I’ve seen the problems that permeate throughout today’s society, and I’ve realized that effective change can be made from a business."-Angelina E, Manhattan, Grade 11Over the course of this incubator, I developed my ability to think about things from the perspective of the user of the product I created.  I would say I am looking at the little things I hadn't noticed before and I am thinking about where things go after they are used and if I can innovate a solution to create less waste-Lillian R, Brooklyn, Grade 11Now I understand the hardships of being an entrepreneur. And if I were to pursue this, it'd be a lot easier than someone without any experience starting up a company.-Aden D, The Bronx, Grade 11Halfway through the program, after I got a feel for it, I remembered that the reason why I joined this program was because when I was younger I wanted to start my own business. After that thought I realized that if I can’t even start a business with 3 people, I have no chance of doing one on my own. So I had to lock in. To this moment, comparing myself to the beginning of the year, I feel like I have learned a multitude of skills that can be useful to me in both my personal and professional life. I know because they have allowed me to be more outspoken when talking to both my peers and strangers, and have taught me a good work ethic.-Jahvon S, Brooklyn, Grade 11Because of this, my communication skills will be better with those who I talk to. If I have like ideas in my head, I could like say out loud and plan them out.-Briana C, The Bronx, Grade 10Of these options, which would best characterize the work and impact of the applying organization?Youth Education and Empowerment:In-school and out-of-school programs that equip youth with the tools they need to succeed, including STEM/STEAM education and youth entrepreneurship. Examples include: academic enrichment programs, youth development programs, Science, Tech, Engineering, Art or Math programs/camps. These are programs that serve mostly people under 24 years of age.Next Generation Storytellers:Programs that promote access and develop pathways for emerging talent and youth voices from underrepresented communities to explore careers in arts, news, sports and entertainment. Examples include: arts education, filmmaking training, or storytelling programs.Community Engagement:Programs that enable individuals to engage and volunteer in their communities. Examples include: citizen engagement programs, volunteering events, campaigns responding to citizen needs (e.g. food insecurity, health services).* Select one:   Community EngagementNext Generation StorytellersYouth Education and Empowerment*How did you hear about the grant program?   I was a prior applicantOtherNBCUniversal or TelemundoNBCUniversal, Telemundo or Comcast Employee