Elevator Pitch *Provide your elevator pitch describing your venture and product.Cambio Labs is a nonprofit that creates educational programs that transform students into founders of businesses or organizations driven by social and environmental missions. We develop curriculum, certifications, and digital learning platforms that enable any instructor to teach social innovation, and any learner to develop the skills needed to thrive in the 21st century. We partner with schools, youth organizations, nonprofits, businesses, and government agencies to create access to employment opportunities, community impact, and generational wealth.Problem *What issue is your product/service addressing? Why do we need a new solution?In the U.S., 1.2 million high school students dropout of high school yearly, and 1 in 3 BIPOC students attend a "dropout factory" (graduating less than 60% of its students). Our U.S. school system is struggling to teach and measure “durable skills” - competencies and employability skills like problem-solving, leadership, communication, critical thinking, teamwork, adaptability, and creativity. After a review of 82 million job postings in 2021, America Succeeds found that seven out of 10 requested skills were classified as “durable skills”, and a 2021 ManpowerGroup survey found that 69% of businesses were struggling to find qualified talent compared to only 38% in 2015. Our current school system is failing to prepare students for the 21st century workforce. BIPOC communities are severely underrepresented in entrepreneurship and tech: with entrepreneurs of color in the U.S. owning less than 20% of businesses with paid employees, and only 10% of Facebook employees being Black or Latinx despite representing 32% of the US population. All people - regardless of race or socio-economic background - deserve access to quality education, economic opportunity, and business ownership. We need change makers that are most proximate to the social and environmental issues that confront our world today. Product / Solution *What is your Product / Solution? What does your product do?Cambio Labs creates curricular programs and educational technology that transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. We deliver a social entrepreneurship course and online learning platform to underserved youth and adults, wherein student entrepreneurs work with teammates to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Throughout the program, participants engage in entrepreneurial coaching from industry professionals, and are exposed to internship and job opportunities from partner organizations in the fields of tech, sustainability, design, and innovation.As a nonprofit, our mission is to empower low income and underrepresented communities of color through free, sponsored programming. We prioritize and serve communities that have been historically marginalized from business ownership, access to capital, mentorship networks, and entrepreneurial education.To systematize and scale our educational impact, our team has developed Journey as an innovation learning platform - complete with video lessons, gamified learning features, and prizes for learners. Here is a video link showcasing some features of the digital learning platform: https://youtu.be/yXDBd3TXpW4. Through our ed tech product, we enable any instructor to teach social innovation, and any learner to develop the skills needed to thrive in the 21st century.Technology!Journey is a gamified innovation learning platform, and businessincubator for high schools and workforce development initiatives.Our team has launched the beta version of our digital innovation learning platform - complete with video lessons, gamified learning features, and prizes for learners - to deliver social entrepreneurial programming. Here is a video link showcasing some features of the leraning platform: https://youtu.be/yXDBd3TXpW4. We are currently running a 6- month pilot program with charter school Comp Sci High in the Bronx, NYC, and have confirmed that we will be running two additional youth entrepreneurship programs this summer. We have also recruited Cambio Coaches that are currently coaching students as they complete their entrepreneurial journey.Demo: https://journey.ml/#/guest ((please view on a laptop desktop, as our learning platform is not fully responsive to mobile yet))User / Customer *Who is your primary user? Who is the customer (payer)? Who is the beneficiary?Our pilot program is currently serving 16 young folks (aged 14-17) residing in the15th Congressional District of the Bronx - where the median income is $28,042. Our students are 100% students of color, and 40% of them live in affordable housing developments.Our curriculum and learning platform are designed to engage underestimated youth that have an interest in starting a venture, that want to gain skills to increase their chances of employment and earning income, and that perhaps are not excelling in more traditional modes of school. Throughout 2022, we piloted our Journey program with students at Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students were students of color and 90% of them qualified for free lunches at school. Cambio Labs’ curriculum, platform, and training is also designed for the usage of teachers or instructors that teach our programs.While students and instructors are the primary beneficiaries and users of our Cambio programs and technology, our primary target paying customers are high school administrators and district leaders that see value in introducing our programs into their school systems. To date, we have also attracted other paying customers, including: nonprofits that focus on youth development (i.e., Prep for Prep), local government initiatives to employ youth (i.e., SYEP), and organizations that are interested in adopting our gamified learning platform (i.e., the RETI Center).and we intend for our courses to be offered in schools or by other youth organizations. They attended Journey as an afterschool program. Through my previous work as an educator and my initial market research, I know that on the individual school level, the ones making purchasing and scheduling decisions are usually principals and administrators. Through various early sales conversations in 2021, I learned that school leaders are concerned about the following items when considering a newprogram: rigor of program, effect on student outcomes like academic performance or job placement,pricing of program, integration into the school’s existing schedule and tech stack, bandwidth of staff andtheir ability to teach an elective or afterschool course, and how adopting a new course aligns with theirobjectives for the school year (and in the pandemic context, I gleaned that school leaders were morepreoccupied with reopening schools and building culture than introducing new programming).Our primary users are high school students, and we intend for our courses to be offered in schools or by other youth organizations. Our curriculum and learning platform are designed to engage youth that have an interest in starting a venture, that want to gain skills that increase their chances of employment and earning income, and that perhaps are not excelling in more traditional modes of school. Throughout 2022, we piloted our Journey program with students at Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. They attended Journey as an afterschool program.Beneficiaries: working class families, at risk youth, potential entrepreneurs in communities of color, young social entrepreneurs and social innovators, the change makers of tomorrowThe primary users of Cambio Labs products are high school students. Our curriculum and virtual learning platform are designed to engage young people that have an interest in starting their own venture, that want to gain skills that increase their chances of employment and earning income, and that perhaps are not excelling or engaged in more traditional modes of school. A secondary, but also critically important user of our products, are high school teachers. Our curricular platform is delivered complete with video lessons, gamified challenges and rewards, teaching tools and prompts, and on-boarding for teachers of any discipline and teaching experience. The Journey platform includes administrative access for teachers to offer feedback and assess students’ progress and submissions of work.The primary users of Cambio Labs products are high school students. Our curriculum and virtual learning platform are designed to engage young people that have an interest in starting their own venture, that want to gain skills that increase their chances of employment and earning income, and that perhaps are not excelling or engaged in more traditional modes of school. Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our Journey program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. Through Cambio Labs’ free and sponsored educational programming, we will primarily target high school students in the USA that attend schools that are recipients of Title 1 funding (earmarked for students from low-income families or most “at risk” of not meeting academic standards), and public schools that are historically underfunded and/or predominantly attended by minority students.A secondary, but also critically important user of our products, are high school teachers. Our curricular platform is delivered complete with video lessons, gamified challenges and rewards, teaching tools and prompts, and on-boarding for teachers of any discipline and teaching experience. The Journey platform includes administrative access for teachers to offer feedback and assess students’ progress and submissions of work.How has our team improved our products throughout the development of Cambio Labs and the Journey platform? Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. After 2 pilot cohorts, the students we have worked with have been 100% of color, xxx. Most proximate to solving social community issues. Believe in the youthCambio Labs’ free educational programming will primarily target high school students in the USA that attend schools that are recipients of Title 1 funding (earmarked for students from low-income families or most “at risk” of not meeting academic standards), and public schools that are historically underfunded and/or predominantly attended by minority students. We have chosen to target students in grades 9-12 because they are more capable and predisposed to being interested in entrepreneurship and championing social causes relative to their younger counterparts, and gaining real world exposure and developing practical skills is more pressing for them as they think about their purpose and future career paths after graduation. We have chosen to work with the most economically disadvantaged and predominantly minority schools because national studies have shown that these schools consistently receive less access to educational resources, quality curriculum, and qualified teachers relative to affluent and predominantly white schools.While this type of social innovation programming can be adapted for elementary and middle school students, our primary target for student engagement with Cambio Labs will be high school students who have more of a predisposition to be politically aware and active, with a desire to develop skills and a sense of purpose to guide them after graduation, and who may be more interested in alternative education that may develop their vocational or entrepreneurial skills in case they are not planning to pursue post graduate schooling. This type of programming might also better engage them and encourage teens to stay in school rather than drop out. While our goal is to make this programming available to high school students everywhere, our goal and social mission dictates that we prioritize making it accessible to underserved youth: “at-risk youth”, students of color, more vulnerable socio-economic students from more traditionally marginalized backgrounds. Offering our programming to private schools will substantiate Cambio’s revenue generating model, but programming for underserved schools and students will be offered for free - or covered by philanthropy, government grants, or by income generated from charging private schools.Validation *How have you validated your product with users? How many? What was the result?How has our team validated and improved our products throughout the development of Cambio Labs and the Journey platform? Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with Comp Sci High students  in the South Bronx. Throughout the pilot program, our team has surveyed students about their development of “durable skills,” and satisfaction with our program and technology platform. We received valuable feedback that has led to changes in our web product’s functionality and interface. Overall, the program was successful, receiving positive ratings from students and great feedback after observations from educators and administrators at Comp Sci High. We received an important form of validation when the school asked us to also deliver a 2022 summer program to their students.During the summer of 2022, Cambio Labs also experienced a significant growth spurt, acquiring contracts for 5 additional cohorts of our programs with a variety of partners. We went from serving 15 students during the school year to over 115 students - all students of color, and predominantly from low income backgrounds. We again have collected positive data from surveys and qualitative feedback, and all partners have agreed to re-engage Cambio Labs for future programs - the ultimate form of validation!Summer results: ongoing contracts witha ll partners, (watch video here), testing out the train the teacher model, partnering successfully with SYEP, instructor training onboarding, customizing the platform for clients while planning the transition to a more scalable backend Our UX team repeatedly interviewed target students and teachers for the purposes of testing and receiving feedback about our platform design. As a founder, I am also constantly introducing our programming to potential customers and partners - i.e., teachers, school and district leaders, and leaders of workforce development and youth internship programs. Their feedback has informed crucial changes to our strategy and platform, including: ensuringthat our curriculum always highlights entrepreneurs of color, recruiting BIPOC coaches, creating a robust suite of online teacher and coaching tools, packaging of student and cohort data that will be useful for schools and districts to measure “innovation development”, and aligning our program with state and school recognized credentials and program requirements.Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. Throughout the pilot program, our team has surveyed students about their development of “durable skills,” and satisfaction with our program and technology platform. We received valuable feedback that has led to changes in our web product’s functionality and interface. Our UX team repeatedly interviewed target students and teachers for the purposes of testing and receiving feedback about our platform design. As a founder, I am also constantly introducing our programming to potential customers and partners - i.e., teachers, school and district leaders, and leaders of workforce development and youth internship programs. Their feedback has informed crucial changes to our strategy and platform, including: ensuring that our curriculum always highlights entrepreneurs of color, recruiting BIPOC coaches, creating a robust suite of online teacher and coaching tools, packaging of student and cohort data that will be useful for schools and districts to measure “innovation development”, and aligning our program with state and school recognized credentials and program requirements.Scalability *In its current state, what elements of your product/process aren’t scalable? What features and functionality must you build in order to achieve scale?As an edtech startup with a big vision for social impact, we believe that successfully developing our learning platform - and making it as user friendly as possible for any instructor anywhere to teach a Cambio Labs course - will result in the proliferation of our programs everywhere and scalable impact.Currently, the “version 1.0” of our Journey platform was coded scrappily, and from scratch by two gifted high school coders. While this was a great way for us to start piloting our programs, making changes to features of the platform is time intensive, and we would struggle to host hundreds and thousands of users on our current platform. We are working on transitioning our platform to Moodle, an open-sourced back end solution thatwhy would make platform development much more streamlined and scalable. We are also seeking more robust hosting solutions for our platform.Other elements of our business model which may be difficult to scale include: training and onboarding of instructors and volunteer coaches, curricular development (which is currently managed by just the founder), and the development and maintenance of the platform for thousands of users (this can’t be managed by our current team of 3 part time coders).Technology & CodingTraining ElementsCoaching elementsCurriculum Team and HRFunding and sales strategiesMarketing effortsWeb development effortsCoder workflowBoard member compositionMy own involvement in all areas - need to delegate and have people and project collaborations, a functioning company and HR unit as a growing organizationImpact *How do you expect your product will improve the lives of low income individuals?Benefits, real material benefits, economic empowerment, increased incomeHelp with completing high school, accessing college, 1) Students gain social capital- like Salma, a pilot student that expressed interest in applying for an internship in Capital One after months of professional mentorship. 2) If students are struggling in school, studies show that experiential learning and mentorship can increase academic engagement and prospects of graduation. Surveys from our pilot program confirm increased confidence. 3) Starting their own venture in high school - and developing durable skills- is a compelling narrative that can help students gain entry to college and employment. 4) If students are inspired by our program to become entrepreneurs, this could increase their personal lifetime earnings, and be a pathway to economic empowerment - as it was for me. Benefits: social capital, mentorship, durable and emp[loyabiloty skills, readiness for college, potential to start your own ventireOutcomes that will define success for our venture include: evidence of academic improvements for students in school, increased graduation rates, increased college acceptance rates, increased job placement for students, increased income for students, and the creation of new business ventures by our alumni. This data will be captured through surveys and interviews with students throughout the program, and after the program, as it will be crucial for our team to capture longitudinal data from our alumni community.Impact Measurement *How would you measure this impact on a per person basis?We are also very intentionally about surveying all of our participants to measure the development Outcomes that will define success for our venture include: evidence of academic improvements for students in school, increased graduation rates, increased college acceptance rates, increased job placement for students, increased income for students, and the creation of new business ventures by our alumni. This data will be captured through surveys and interviews with students throughout the program, and importantly after the program, as it will be crucial for our team to capture longitudinal data from our alumni community.Economic developmentLeadership and professional developmentMentorship and consultingSocial justiceTechnology - Curriculum productsWorkforce developmentThe work of Cambio Labs centers on advocating for educational equity, economic empowerment of BIPOC communities, and diversity in the fields of tech and entrepreneurship. I envision a future where all people - regardless of race - have access to entrepreneurial education and the resources and networks necessary to thrive in a 21st century economy and world. I imagine that as a result of our work, hundreds of thousands of youth and young adults of color have participated in our free programs, and that their innate talents as innovators and creative problem solvers are being unleashed all over the world. As a result of our programs, graduation and college acceptance rates for BIPOC students would increase, the fields of entrepreneurship, tech, and investment would employ mostly people of color, and capital and community resources in economically vibrant neighborhoods of color would be controlled and owned by its own residents. Our alumni would resolve climate change and global poverty.Funding Model *Where do you plan to receive funding from on an on-going basis? Please be specific.Cambio Labs focuses on leveraging multiple income streams: sales (earned income), donations, grants, and corporate sponsorships. Since launching in the summer of 2021, we have earned a total of $2,034 in grassroots donations, $6,000 in instructor training fees, $37,500 in corporate sponsorship from AT&T and Amazon, and $61,500 in sales (for entrepreneurship programs delivered to clients and for the usage of our social entrepreneurship curriculum).Moving forward, we want to continue to leverage dual income streams: improving our philanthropic strategy by upgrading our marketing, donation campaigns, and applying for more grants and foundation funding, while also continuing to develop our earned income strategy as we continue to sell courses, Journey platform subscriptions, and commercialize customization of our digital learning platform. The early interest and sales that we’ve recently generated is a testament to the value of our approach and technology. Future opportunities for income generation include: tapping into incubator, workforce development, and university markets that value our entrepreneurial learning platform, and working with content and curriculum providers to help them adopt our gamified learning technology.My ambition was to always create a “profitable nonprofit,” as I wholeheartedly believe that developing a killer business model is crucial for guaranteeing long term sustainability and social impact. and incorporating web 3 components like NFT credentials, “learn to earn” incentivization strategies, and establishing a tokenized venture fund and accelerator where Cambio Labs alumni can further develop their startups.To be financially sustainable, the minimum amount of yearly operating capital we need is $200,000. Ihave also created plans and yearly operating budgets for the $1M and $3M versions of Cambio Labswhich could scale our Journey curriculum and learning technology nationally and globally. charter school network to support our 2022 Journeysummer internship program for Comp Sci High students. In total, that’s $12,034 of income whilebootstrapping (not paying myself a salary) and spending a total $2,800 for software developmentservices from two high school aged coders that have built the beta version of Journey. We have also usedplatforms like Catchafire and my personal network to leverage volunteer services from marketers,coaches, and advisors.After a scrappy start to our venture, I am very excited about an increased flow of projects and revenuethat we have confirmed for this summer! We will be running two internship programs for nonprofitOpportunities For All in San Francisco, one summer internship for Comp Sci High in the Bronx, NYC,partnering to deliver a solar training program in Brooklyn, NYC, and running two design andentrepreneurship programs for nonprofit Prep for Prep in NYC - totaling $67.5K in sales and $30K insponsorship from Amazon to support our solar project.Moving forward, I want to continue to leverage dual income streams: improving our philanthropicstrategy by upgrading our marketing, donation campaigns, and applying for more grants and foundationfunding... but I am most excited about continuing to develop our earned income strategy as we continueto sell subscriptions to Journey courses for schools and commercialize alternative applications of ourdigital learning platform. My ambition was to always create a “profitable nonprofit,” as I wholeheartedlybelieve that developing a killer business model is crucial for guaranteeing long term sustainability andsocial impact. The early interest and sales that we’ve recently generated is a testament to the value ofour approach and technology. Future opportunities for income generation include: tapping into incubator,workforce development, and university markets that value our entrepreneurial learning platform; workingwith content and curriculum providers to help them adopt our gamified learning technology; andincorporating web 3 components like NFT credentials, “learn to earn” incentivization strategies, andestablishing a tokenized venture fund and accelerator where Cambio Labs alumni can further developtheir startups.To be financially sustainable, the minimum amount of yearly operating capital we need is $200,000. Ihave also created plans and yearly operating budgets for the $1M and $3M versions of Cambio Labswhich could scale our Journey curriculum and learning technology nationally and globally.Risks *What are the three biggest risks for the product moving forward, outside of raising funds?Unstable school systemTechnological breakdown or increased and inefficient development costToo much dependency on a single source of fundingMission drift - to lose focus on low income people for the sake of financial sustainabilityInterpersonal team dynamics and volatile board structureIP and proprietary risksChallenges that I forsee in scaling Cambio Labs: 1) navigating the highly regulated and bureaucratic public school system (with departments and allowances varying from state to state) to have our programs adopted across various states; 2) developing the infrastructure and team to scale the delivery of programs across the USA, and eventually, internationally. This will require the recruitment of qualified instructors and trainers, advocates that can continually introduce our programs to new districts and schools, strategic partners in each target area with deep local knowledge of community partners and school networks, and a backend system to coordinate the allocation of resources and support for programs, and track key metrics and results throughout network of schools; 3) fundraising from a diverse set of potential financiers, including: government grants and educational accelerators, philanthropy, and income from services and licensed programs for private or affluent schools (efforts into developing this last income stream will have to be carefully balanced, as our primary mission is to deliver programs to underserved schools); 4) developing intergenerational partnerships and support from key adult stakeholders - educational district managers, investors, government officials, policymakers - who will be critical in ensuring that student-led social innovation has real world legitimacy and impact. I am assuming that social entrepreneurship is an area of interest for schools and underserved youth, and that they recognize this as a potential pathway to economic empowerment.I am assuming that we can tailor our offerings to be adopted within the public school system - a challenge that we have yet to test and accomplish.Positive effect on graduation rates, student academic engagement, and securing of employment opportunities. I hope to continue surveying and tracking results from our alumni students.There have been many challenges that we’ve faced throughout the launch of Cambio Labs. After leaving my full time teaching position about a year ago to launch this organization, I relied on spending my limited savings to finance the development of our technology and programming. I am not a technical founder, and it was a challenge to develop a digital learning interface for the first time, and to manage high school aged coders that did not have extensive professional experience. It was also a challenge to introduce our programming to schools in the summer of 2021 - in the thick of the pandemic context, when administrators were more preoccupied with reopening school successfully than introducing new curricular programs. Despite the challenges, I am proud of our progress!  Funding - bootstrapping challengeDeveloping a tech platform with limited resourcesLack of staff and team to accomplish a lot of goalsDealing with the pandemic context while trying to attract school partnersNot having a pilot for low income students established yet, but trying to convince partnersUnderstanding the complexities of nonprofit operations, filing, and governanceFit *Why is Robin Hood, and in particular, Catalyst, a good program for your product, outside of the funding we provide?I am now at a crucial inflection point in my own entrepreneurial journey. After a year of bootstrapping Cambio Labs, I have piloted my Journey program with a target school, and I am starting to confirm more opportunities for partnership and income among schools and workforce development programs next year. While these are great developments, there are still crucial assumptions to be tested and pilots to learn from. I want to launch new programs among Title 1 schools, in the public school sector (particularly CTE schools), and to experiment with serving underemployed young adults.I think this fellowship can now provide me with the frameworks and community I will need to successfully grow Cambio Labs.I believe that 4.0 school is founded upon values that resonate deeply with me: being anti-racist, advocating and working for access to education, and to build platforms that can empower innovators and change makers - especially from within he education sector!I have met 4.0 Fellows and have always been impressed by their ideas and commitment to social justice. I want to learn from other fellows and support and contribute this movement and community however I can. I want to make the most of the curriculum, capital, mentorship, and community that 4.0 offers to benefit and grow Cambio Labs.