Elevator Pitch (100 word limit): Cambio Labs creates educational apps and programs that transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. Our mission is to create access to school programs that develop 21st century, real world problem solving skills. Our 2021-22 pilot will roll out the BOSS Program - a social entrepreneurial course and youth startup incubator for high schools with licensed curriculum, teacher on-boarding, corporate mentorship programs, and a virtual learning platform. We practice Buy 1 Give 1 Education: for every school that pays for a Cambio program, a free course or online subscription will be sponsored at a Title 1 School.Mission: Cambio Labs creates educational apps and programs that transform students and workers into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. Our mission is to create access to school programs that develop 21st century, real world problem solving skills. As an educational nonprofit, we practice Buy 1 Give 1 Education: for every school that pays for a Cambio program, a free course or online subscription will be sponsored at a Title 1 School.Vision:Cambio LabCurriculum adopted across the country and internationally Government, innovation hubs, and ecosystems for underrepresented entrepreneur Cambio Labs’ vision is to radically reform the US education system so that transformative educational opportunities are accessible to all - regardless of zip code, income, race, or documentation status - and youth is equipped with competencies like collaboration, communication, and creative problem-solving that will help them find employment and purpose in a 21st century world. By working at the intersection of government, education, and corporate sectors, Cambio creates innovation and entrepreneurial hubs that empower underrepresented communities.     long-standing systems of racial discrimation in the US school system are dismantled and abolished; Advocates, activist, and vanguard of a movement for universal access to educationTo reform the education system and update it for the 21st century. To dismantle systems of racism, oppression, and systemic lack of opportunity within education. To reform legislation to ensure that all children have access to transformative education and opportunities, regardless of their zip code, skin color, or documentation status. To ensure that all workers have access to job opportunities regardless of educational achievements What is the issue your product is addressing and why do we need a new solution? As a nonprofit educational venture, Cambio Labs addresses the following issues:? Our American public school system does not equip young people for the challenges of a 21st century world or workforce. Since our public school system has not been significantly updated since 1983, our schools focus on developing industrial age skills through standardized testing and rote vocational training (Brady, Gates, Khan, Harari).? Because funding for public schools in the US is determined largely by property taxes, major differences in the quality of schools have emerged between rich and poor neighborhoods, and between industrialized and rural areas. Students of color and low income students have been disproportionately impacted by educational inequity, as they are much more likely to attend schools with less enrichment activities, worse facilities, and less experienced teachers when compared to their wealthier counterparts.? 1.2 million high school students drop out in the USA every year. 1 in 3 BIPOC students in the US attend a "dropout factory" (a public school graduating less than 60% of its students). (ASCD, DoSomething)? Dropouts face extremely bleak economic and social prospects. Compared to high school graduates, they are less likely to find a job and earn a living wage, and more likely to be poor and to suffer from a variety of adverse health outcomes (Rumberger, 2011). Moreover, they are more likely to rely on public assistance, engage in crime and generate other social costs borne by taxpayers (Belfield & Levin, 2007).? Less than 1% of the schools in the US offer programs in entrepreneurship, design, or experiential service learning - courses that emphasize real world problem solving and future workforce competencies like communication and collaboration.? COVID-19 has exposed that schools and teachers are not equipped to deliver quality online education to all students, and that innovative solutions for digital learning are neededWho is your primary user? The primary user of Cambio Labs products are high school students. Our curriculum and virtual learning platform are designed to engage young people that have an interest in starting their own venture, that want to gain skills that increase their chances of employment and earning income, and that perhaps are not excelling or engaged in more traditional modes of school.   A secondary, but also critically important user of our products, are high school teachers. Our curriculum is delivered complete with video lessons, examples of student work, teaching prompts, and on-boarding for teachers of any discipline and level of teaching experience to easily adopt. Our virtual learning platform will include administrative access for teachers to check on their students’ progress and submissions of work.In terms of market segmentation, Cambio Labs targets two types of schools: 1) high schools that pay for Cambio Courses: these are public & charter schools with access to government grants or surplus budgets, as well as private schools with tuition surpluses, and 2) schools that receive Cambio programming for free: Title 1 schools with a high percentage of low income students,located in the most under-resourced districts. We practice Buy 1 Give 1 education: for every school that pays for a Cambio Course, a free course will be sponsored at a Title 1 School.Since the ones making programmatic and purchasing decisions at schools are usually principals or administrators - Cambio Labs will target these stakeholders with sales and marketing efforts. Their buy-in as “users” will be crucial to the success of our Buy 1 Give 1 Model and to scaling our program’s social impact. Other users that we will target in the future: incubators and innovation hubs; university students and networks; initiatives to re-skill workers for a green new economy, and government initiatives that empower low-income entrepreneurs.How have you validated your product with users? How many? What was the result? I have spent the past 3 years developing and testing Cambio Lab’s social entrepreneurial curriculum with high school students in New York City. I did this through my role as an educator at Avenues: The World School (a K12 high school based in Manhattan), and as the Director of the Social Innovation Program at that school. In 2018 and 2019 I delivered my programming in person, and in 2020 and 2021 I gained extensive experience in delivering all of our curricular content online. I have taught over 50 students that took my social entrepreneurship course as a year-long elective, and coached over 40 additional students aged 14-18 on their entrepreneurial projects throughout the past 3 years.The results from piloting my social entrepreneurial classes has been very promising. Over 50 business models for student-led, social ventures were developed, ranging from companies tackling issues like disaster response, climate change, youth mentorship, police brutality, and more. 15 social startups and teams were established, and launched to the point of interviewing potential customers, developing websites, launching targeted ad campaigns, pitching to potential investors, and in some cases, making early sales. Some highlights of these ventures include: StemWomen, a venture that created mentorship and internship opportunities for young women in STEM industries; Action, an anti-bullying platform that operated mostly through Discord and gaming networks; and Torq, a piece of hardware that could be installed onto subway turnstiles to generate a new source of renewable energy.In delivering my social entrepreneurship courses, I have also had opportunities to collaborate with over 20 others schools and students across New York City, in organizing student entrepreneur meetups and competitions. The feedback from students and teachers at various schools has been overwhelmingly positive, and more recently school leaders have expressed interest in purchasing and piloting Cambio Labs programming. and Sharemarket, a culinary club and food delivery services that provided meals to food insecure populations.     littering in urban centers,   13 social Testing> have tested curriculum aith students and schools, trained teachers-In Avenues, across curriculum. Supported teachers-with other schools through D4i DCs, worked with public school sectors-Tested out interest with schools and potential funders>Less testing with tech prototypeSoon to be piloted withs schools in 2021-22 yearLongitudinal studies neededValidated with potential customers, school partners, corporates and fundersWhat does your product do?Cambio Labs creates educational apps and programs that transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. More specifically, we develop professional networks, training, and curricula for schools and teachers to bring social innovation and “change-centered” education into their classrooms. We also develop digital toolkits and virtual learning platforms that enable students and teachers to engage in transformative, project-based learning at a distance. In launching our pilot programming for the 2021-22 school year, Cambio Labs will roll out the BOSS Program - a social entrepreneurial course and youth startup incubator for high schools complete with licensed curriculum, teacher on-boarding, corporate mentorship programs for students, and the beta version of an online learning platform named Journey. Our partner schools will offer the BOSS Program as an elective class or after school club or course.Throughout the BOSS Program, students identify a social or environmental issue to solve, build start up teams, develop testable prototypes of their products, and launch their social ventures with real world customers and stakeholders. Through this experience, students develop real world problem solving skills and 21st century competencies like adaptability, communication, collaboration, and creative confidence. Journey, the online virtual platform that complements the BOSS Program, will include: engaging video content, perks and prizes for completing entrepreneurial challenges, and opportunities for users to connect with potential funders and employers.A core feature of the BOSS Program will be to connect students to mentors at real companies (in the fields of banking, tech, design, STEM, and various startups) to create a sustainable pipeline for future internship and employment opportunities.In commercializing Cambio Labs products, we will practice Buy 1 Give Education: for every paid Cambio Course or Journey subscription, a sponsored equivalent will be provided for free to low income users or students that attend Title 1 schools.In its current state, what elements of your product/process aren’t scalable?  What features and functionality must you build in order to achieve scale? I.e. if you had 1,000 new users tomorrow, what would need to change in order for that to happen? To scale the BOSS Program and Journey platform, Cambio Labs will have to build out lots of infrastructure, human capital, technological functionality, and incorporate systems to track data and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that will influence how we pivot, iterate, and continue to develop our products in a way that is responsive to our users’ wants and needs. Our current curriculum and core learning content is largely stored across a collection of files, slide decks, videos, and learning resources on Google Drive. This will need to be categorized and systematized into a database of content that is easily searchable and accessible for our team and partner network of schools and students. As the scope and impact of our venture continues to grow, and we service more school districts across the US, our team of marketing, technology, sales, and customer service professionals will need to grow to accommodate more demands across disparate geographical areas.Journey, our virtual learning platform, is also at the earliest stage of development - the prototype was created by the founder using Marvelapp.com; this was done without coding and the functionality is extremely limited. To scale this successfully, this virtual learning platform will definitely have to be professionalized, redesigned, and tested/de-bugged continuously for the sake of eventually onboard thousands of users.   Finally, to validate our hypothesis that Cambio Labs’ programming will have a long term positive impact on the lives of our student users, we will have to build robust feedback loops and longitudinal studies with our alumni that may last for several years and decades! This means creating vibrant alumni networks, hiring staff for the purpose of continuously engaging alumni and tracking their progress, and developing systems to effectively interpret KPIs that may affect how we develop future programming and operate on a daily basis. (the virtual learning component of our rollout plan)The in-person components are not as scalable, but I am using technology and the virtual interface concept to scaleHow do you expect your product will improve the lives of low income folks? Low Income defined as making less than $50k Why do we need a solution?State of crisis as our education system in the US and NYC has broken downAs more students from Title 1 schools (that qualify as low-income) take Cambio Labs’ courses, we expect to achieve the following positive outcomes for low-income youth and communities:? A reduction in highschool dropout rates? Decreasing the chances of young people being homeless, incarcerated, or suffering from psychological distress due to poverty and financial duress  ? Young people developing skills sets and gaining certifications that will increase their chances of employability and earning a liveable wage in the future? To increase the rates of college enrollment and completion among low income students? To increase alternative pathways to college education? To reskill youth to become workers equipped for a green new economy in a 21st century context (leveraging skills to thrive in the sustainable fields of solar, wind, green construction and retrofitting, energy conservation, and green worker cooperative establishment)? To increase the lifelong income of Cambio Labs alumni? To increase the amount of new businesses created, jobs created, and tax venue generated from ventures established as a result of Cambio Labs programing. We hope that this can help develop local economies and untapped talent in the most under resourced areas Reduction in high school & college dropout ratesIncrease in new venture & impact project creationThriving local innovation ecosystems & collaborations between educational, corporate & government sectorsRegional & national% increases in employment, job retention & average income for workersAccess to startup, design, STEM, political & social innovation industries for low income & underrepresented populationsUniversal access to education for 21st century skillsDecent quality of life & employment opportunities for allHow would you measure this impact on a per person basis? I.E. Money saved, delta in likelihood of graduation, etc. Number students and teachers served; quantitative survey data about student and teacher satisfaction; codified qualitative data from interview sessions; % increase in graduation rates at partner Title 1 schools; % increase in college acceptance rate; number of mentorship relationships established; number of internships and job opportunities offered; % increase in student employment rate during summer breaks and after graduation; % increase in income and stable employment for alumni; number of ventures launched by students; amount of revenue generated and jobs created as a result of student ventures; amount of dollars invested in student ventures - more specifically, in low income entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs of color % increase in income and stable employment for alumni; increase in number and diversity of launched social ventures, community initiatives, and activist movements by alumni; decrease in inequality of funding between public schools across the US; increase in investment for youth-led innovation; increase in number of legislative actions that support greater youth voice, rights, and political agency; decrease in population without access to quality education.What evidence (studies, pilots, etc.) leads you to believe these numbers? Our outcomes to be tracked and tested include reduced % in dropout rates and subsequent crime, and increased % in college attendance, personal income, stable employment, and careers in innovation sectors for alumni. Early experiential and transformative education programs have been shown to have similar lifelong positive effects on children, as evidenced by the Perry Preschool Program research (Heckman).Cambio Labs' impact metrics to be tracked on a per person basis include: successful high school graduation, college entrance and completion, arrest and incarceration, length of unemployment, frequency and duration of employment, employment in innovation sectors, wage level and increase over time, benefits received from work, establishment of new business venture, number of employees hired, amount of personal and business taxes paid; qualitative longitudinal studies to assess fulfillment, happiness, and psychological wellbeing.  Early experiential and transformative education programs have been shown to have similar lifelong positive effects on children, as evidenced by the Perry Preschool Program research (Heckman).Other metrics to track to determine success and impact: students served; % increase in income and stable employment for alumni; increase in number and diversity of launched social ventures, community initiatives, and activist movements by alumni; decrease in inequality of funding between public schools across the US; increase in investment for youth-led innovation; increase in number of legislative actions that support greater youth voice, rights, and political agency; decrease in population without access to quality education.How have you funded yourself? How will you get funding in the future? I am currently interviewing with potential philanthropic funders like the Morgridge Foundation and New Profit to gauge their interest in funding a project like Cambio Labs. I have also categorized my personal and professional network and am currently conducting outreach with high networth individuals and with donors and investors that are interested or have experience in the edtech space. Our long term goal for financing Cambio Labs is to combine earned income strategies and philanthropic dollars to be financially sustainable. By Year 3, our goal is to be profitable from income earned from the commercialization of Cambio Labs courses and the Journey online platform. To date, all development of Cambio Labs has been independently funded by Sebastian Martin and no funding has been raised from investors or from grants.How do you now and how will you get people to use your product or service? I am currently offering my programming to students at the school where I work, Avenues: The World School, and proposing workshops and programming for the 2021-22 school year to school leaders through my professional network. I have a major national network of contacts and school professionals to tap (one that I've been developing for the past 3 years), but we also intend to market our products through trade shows, conferences, and paid digital advertising in the future.Who are your competitors and what makes you different? Many organizations have tried to reform and leverage our troubled US public school system. Publicly funded charter schools are privately operated, sometimes by for-profits (Strauss). Independent schools like MVIFI and Avenues provide design thinking and project based learning programs, and teen entrepreneurship programs like WIT and Quarter Zero exist, but they all charge inaccessible tuition fees. Other organizations like Project Invent and Fulfill operate under a similar nonprofit strategy, but are limited mostly to geographic areas outside of NYC. Direct competitors also have failed to integrate into the public school schedule as elective courses (they mostly operate after school),m and have failed to leverage a string emphasize on corporate partnerships and mentorships as Cambio Labs intends to do.Cambio Labs is also differentiated by its financing strategy: leveraging financing from grants, philanthropy, and sustainable revenue streams (like commercializing tools and services for independent organizations and private schools).What other organizations or types of organizations will you need to partner with in order to be successful? Our strategy for success is to bridge across the corporate, educational, and government sectors. Corporate partners/sponsors like Bank of America, Nat West, and other tech startups will be crucial in securing volunteer mentors and internship/job opportunities for our students. Building relationships with school leaders and networks in the DOE and public sector will be critical for success as well.