Project SummaryCambio Labs was created in 2021 as a response to education inequities that limit the ability of low income youth across New York City to create businesses, advocate for their communities, and find gainful employment. Our mission is to equip these young individuals with marketable skills like public speaking, teamwork, collaboration, and innovation. We achieve this through a curriculum that emphasizes social responsibility and project-based learning. Additionally, our program connects students with trusted mentors in the fields of technology, finance, sustainability, and entrepreneurship. Developed by a team of social entrepreneurs, educators, and youth, and in collaboration with community-based organizations, our program is designed to adapt to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our students are prepared to excel in their future careers or social ventures.We create transformative, culturally-competent business programs for youth, which we deliver with the help of a gamified learning management system that we designed, called the Journey platform.  Our curriculum is designed to empower youth to leverage technology to design and launch impactful businesses to solve issues in their communities. Over the course of 5-8 weeks, participants work in teams to design business solutions for issues they care about in their communities.  As early as middle school, youth grow through a social innovation incubator for youth, merging design thinking with project-based learning. With the support of our digital learning platform, we deliver an immersive experience where participants form teams to tackle societal challenges, fostering skills in empathy, stakeholder analysis, and problem-solving. The curriculum, adaptable in length, emphasizes hands-on community engagement and empathy research, guiding youth in developing sustainable business models for social impact. In preparation for a final pitch before a panel of judges of investors and entrepreneurs, students fine-tune their marketing and sustainability strategies, learn to develop a viable business model, and understand revenue and cost structures. Most importantly, as a team, they practice effective presentation skills and learn self-advocacy.  Our platform allows us to meet our learners where they are, provide live feedback, and provide an engaging and gamified learning experience, where they “earn-to-learn” by completing challenges and earning “gemstones” that they can cash in for time with industry leaders and expert mentors to strengthen their ventures in our digital marketplace. We also teach students about leveraging artificial intelligence, blockchain, and digital no-code prototypes to close the digital divide that excludes our communities from building intergenerational wealth.Project Description The Problem We are AddressingThe problem we are addressing is the education and opportunity disparity that disproportionately affects low-income youth, particularly BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) communities. Systemic underinvestments in education systems, outdated curricula, and unequal technology access are core to this challenge. This underinvestment further compounds, leading to uneven access to mentors, entrepreneurial education, and paid work-based learning opportunities. As a consequence, BIPOC youth suffer at both community and national levels, which impacts their access to highly-skilled, better-paying employment opportunities in their futures.Current education systems fail to adequately teach students evolving digital skills, and even when taught, they are expected to be practiced in off-school settings that require necessary devices and internet connectivity. The Pew Research Center reports that 15% of U.S. households with school-age children do not have a high-speed internet connection at home, with low-income families and Black and Hispanic households being disproportionately affected. A recent report by the National Skills Coalition shows that in 2023, 92% of jobs across every industry analyzed in the U.S. require digital skills - a number that will continue to grow. Workers who qualify for jobs requiring even one digital skill can earn an average of 23% more than those in jobs with no digital skills. Thus, it’s imperative to equip BIPOC students with the digital literacy and skills required to enter the future job market and elevate their future communities.Another crucial aspect widening the opportunity gap for BIPOC youth is the lack of access to mentors and entrepreneurial education. Lack of access to entrepreneurial education, capital and networking opportunities greatly hinder BIPOC communities, who comprise <30% of the entrepreneurial workforce in the U.S.Meanwhile, the majority of skills that employers are hiring for—such as leadership, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity—are not adequately developed from school alone, with employers reporting that less than 25% of recent graduates are qualified for entry-level roles. Work-based learning opportunities are crucial in preparing students for entry-level roles, and also expose students to professional networking opportunities which will help propel their careers later on. These opportunities typically come from schools offering partnership programs with companies, or students’ network-based connections. We see this system failure especially for our students of color,  with 1 in 3 BIPOC students nationally attending schools termed “dropout factories”, where graduation rates are below 60%.  According to the U.S. Department of Labor, apprenticeship programs can lead to careers that pay an average of $70,000 annually, yet the participation of BIPOC youth in such programs is significantly lower than their white counterparts, leaving them disadvantaged when entering the job market. Our work focuses on rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and work-based learning opportunities, as well as equipping them with the necessary digital skills and literacy which are critical for securing higher-paying jobs. By doing so, we hope to challenge and change the systemic barriers that have long hindered equal educational and professional opportunities for BIPOC communities.Cambio Labs Approach and Why it WorksOur strategy begins with co-designing our programming with our partners according to their needs; from short workshops to multi-semester social entrepreneurship programs. Our clients are education leaders at community-based organizations who also see work-based learning opportunities as a means to empower BIPOC Youth.By co-designing with community leaders, from fostering an ecosystem of social innovation in public housing communities through our program Startup NYCHA to our progressive curriculum from middle school to high school at Prep for Prep, we ensure our programs are responsive and aligned with the specific needs and goals of the communities we work with. This is also an integral part of the program we teach; our students are encouraged to test their assumptions, while they build digital prototypes of their solutions, and foster long-term skills in leadership, critical thinking, and teamwork, which are essential for bridging the opportunity gap in high-paying employment sectors.Our programs are unique in their integration of gamification and real-world challenges, exemplified by our 'gemstone' system on the digital learning platform we designed called Journey, which encourages active learning and engagement. These gemstones, earned through various team and individual challenges, can be redeemed for mentoring sessions with our network of experienced professionals, providing invaluable guidance and networking opportunities often inaccessible to BIPOC youth. All programs culminate in a pitch competition, judged by seasoned entrepreneurs and business leaders, offering participants not only a platform to showcase their ventures but also a stepping stone to real-world opportunities. This setup aligns with our goal of rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and professional networks, as highlighted by the U.S. Department of Labor's findings on the positive impact of apprenticeship programs on career prospects.Furthermore, our commitment to inclusivity and empowerment extends beyond program completion. We actively involve our alumni as paid mentors and co-facilitators, creating a sustainable cycle of learning and growth within the community. This approach not only equips participants with immediate skills and opportunities but also fosters a supportive ecosystem that continues to nurture their growth and advancement. By doing so, Cambio Labs is not just providing a temporary solution; we are contributing to a broader movement towards equitable educational and professional opportunities, challenging systemic barriers that have long hindered the progress of BIPOC communities. What the world would look like when this problem has been solvedIn our vision, all New Yorkers, regardless of zip code or income level, would have access to economic opportunity, business ownership, and the tools of innovation. This would spread across New York, beginning with NYCHA complexes through Startup NYCHA, an initiative we are launching with the support of the West Side Community Fund, the Social Justice Accelerator Fund, and other partners in April 2024.Residents would be able to launch their own companies, secure employment and internship opportunities, and launch community-based projects that address local social and environmental challenges.  NYCHA would become a place where people’s entrepreneurial visions could thrive.We hope to be part of a city-wide entrepreneurial movement within NYCHA by demonstrating what is possible when we provide youth with the programs, support, and resources to become founders of socially and environmentally responsible businesses and organizations. Eventually, we would like to replicate this model in other cities.Why Cambio Labs?We build cross-sectoral, community-based partnerships to allow for paid, work-based learning opportunities.One example is our work with the RETI Center through our Green Workforce Development Initiative.  For 4 cohorts since 2021; participants have obtained stipends through Good Shepherd Services; Solar Panel Installation training through Brooklyn SolarWorks; Certification from OSHA and the Green Urban Council; and a certificate in Green Entrepreneurship through Cambio Labs. We were also able to digitalize the RETI Centers’ coursework in solar panel installation on our platform, allowing this kind of programming to become more interactive, effective, and scalable.We leverage and design technology to engage and empower underestimated communitiesOur program is designed to enable participants to harness technology and entrepreneurship as tools for social change.  We do this by helping entrepreneurs bring their visions to life by (i) designing inclusive, dynamic, and interactive ed tech and learning experiences; (ii) providing innovation tools like no-code prototyping; and (iii) introducing our participants to artificial intelligence, blockchain technology, and digital outreach and research skills.As an ed tech nonprofit, we leverage technology to create flexible and responsive learning solutions, be they hybrid, in-person, or fully remote gamified and engaging learning techniques. Our program is designed and delivered by social entrepreneurs and educators from the communityCambio founder Sebastián’s background as an educator and an entrepreneur enables Cambio Labs to create a robust curriculum that addresses rapidly evolving changes in how society needs to engage and prepare youth. We embrace liberatory design to create curriculumWe actively challenge systemic barriers by encouraging entrepreneurs to create projects and businesses that center their communities, which have been historically underestimated and excluded from the entrepreneurship scene.   Why we are unique in the Social Entrepreneurship Landscape?Below we mention incredible organizations working in a similar space, and how we are different.LearnServe International (Washington, DC) inspired Sebastian to become a socially responsible individual. He is one of their first graduates and was awarded their Entrepreneurship Award in 2018. Our main difference is our focus on low-income BIPOC students and that we do not serve private schools. Currently, their program costs students between $1250-2000; ours is free of charge to the students. In addition, our curriculum design specifically addresses the needs of each cohort by seeking input from the students, our partners, and the community. We also prioritize digitizing our curriculum to increase scalability and adopted a train-the-trainer program in NYC and San Francisco, in collaboration with the Mayor’s program of Opportunities for All (OFA). Project Invent (San Francisco, CA) offers design thinking, engineering, and technology courses to students grades 9-12. Our organization also offers design thinking along with many other concepts and skills with distinct emphasis on social entrepreneurship. Moreover, we remain steadfast in our commitment to providing these learning experiences free of charge, or even as paid internships. Programs at Project Invent cost students between $495 for a year-long course and $1995 for the summer immersion program. They offer their curriculum open and free in the form of publicly available slides. Our curriculum uses a highly interactive, digitized, and gamified platform that enhances engagement and learning.Uncharted Learning (Illinois) shares our goal of nurturing youth entrepreneurship (grades 6-12) and has introduced a train-the-trainer program. Our focus is social entrepreneurship—a critical difference that guides our program development and delivery. Additionally, we ensure our programs remain accessible to all students. While they also partner with schools, the cost of Uncharted Learning's offerings is $1500-$2500 per student for their INCubatoredu Program and ACCELeratoredu Program, respectively, which often limits the participation of schools in their offerings.Why the team at Cambio LabsGrowing up, Cambio Labs founder, Sebastián Martín, witnessed the hurdles his Latinx immigrant parents faced as BIPOC entrepreneurs. Upon launching his own social ventures, he realized neither the education nor entrepreneurship ecosystem was designed to prepare and empower social innovators in communities of color. For his first social venture, he decided to leverage the power of direct trade to empower local indigenous cooperatives in his mother’s country, Bolivia, and began exporting and retailing their coffee in Shanghai. By eliminating the traditional chain of intermediaries – who often absorb a large portion of profits – this approach allowed farmers to retain a greater share of the value they produced.The challenges he faced during this 8-year venture made Sebastian recognize the scarcity of resources, mentorship, and second chances for entrepreneurs of color, and the failure of traditional education systems to adequately prepare students. He began teaching social entrepreneurship at universities, and, as the social innovation lead at a high school in New York, he realized that solutions available for delivering social entrepreneurship education for BIPOC youth were being delivered piecemeal with few coordinated resources, and within a system steeped in inequity. To address the issue, including the lack of coaching and mentorship in BIPOC communities by BIPOC coaches and mentors, he leveraged user-centered, liberatory design to create technology platforms and learning experiences that equip youth for 21st social challenges and employment. Through work-based learning solutions, he wants young social entrepreneurs to thrive in ways that our conventional high school infrastructure does not permit. To date, Cambio Labs has served over 230 young social entrepreneurs. Michelle Maluwetig, as the Director of Organizational Development, brings extensive experience as a business educator and advocate for underrepresented entrepreneurs. As a business educator and microfinance officer, she has worked diligently for entrepreneurs to gain access to capital, information and networks for underestimated and underserved communities and she works in partnership and institutional capacity building at Cambio to bring these resources to entrepreneurs, sooner, as early as middle school. She has extensive experience working with the latinx community from her work at the Organization of American States; the Latino Economic Development Center, and El Centro de la Raza.Sarah Zou, in her role as a Product Strategist at Cambio Labs, brings a wealth of experience in digital strategy, product operations, and technical management, aligning perfectly with the project's goals. Her multilingual abilities and experience in multicultural settings are invaluable assets for a project focused on diverse BIPOC communities. Sarah's agile, data-driven approach, combined with her background in science and MBA, equips her to effectively navigate the complexities of emerging education, technology, and social entrepreneurship. Her track record in creating effective team processes and ensuring psychological safety makes her an essential member of the team, capable of leading the project team towards a socially impactful, innovative solution. How Cambio Labs can grow from 2 years at the SJA Program and beyondSustainable Growth and Resource ManagementAs a team with only two full-time employees, we have managed to attain results that have led to a doubling in demand for our programming in our first two years, and we hope that we would benefit from SJA’s expertise in identifying and securing resources to allow us to continue to deliver and enhance efficient programmatic customization and grow our team.Staff Expansion and RecruitmentWe would like our programs to continue to be delivered by culturally competent instructors from the community. We would benefit from support in strategic recruitment. Numerous instructors have also sought full-time vs contractor positions and we would love to have the capacity to offer competitive salaries with benefits.Capacity Building for Grant Writing and FundraisingMost of our funding has come from sales and partnerships; and currently less than 14% of our revenue comes from grants.  We would benefit tremendously in guidance in identifying potential partners and funding sources that align with our values and mission. This may include grant writing assistance, network building, and strategies for maintaining program integrity while expanding accessibility.Financial Management Expert advice on nonprofit financial management, including true cost accounting, budget projection, and customized pricing strategies would be welcome. We have been tracking our income and expenses manually and we would like to build a financial model that helps us keep track of our capacity and growth.Most importantly, we welcome thought partners in finetuning our theory of change and the opportunity to be part of a community seeking to create enduring, transformative change for generations to come.Finances & Funding1. Annual budget2. Funding already raised, including specific sources and amounts of funding for salary andbenefits3. Current plans for further funding: ? Expanding Startup NYCHA; Verbal confirmation from REES for $20,000? Final Rounds in Several Grants:? Fast Forward Accelerator ($25,000)? Leaders of Color Initiative at Arbor Rising ($20,000)? Blue Ridge Accelerator ($90,000)? Con Edison Grant ($1,000,000/3 years)? Continuation of Programming at the Brooklyn Navy Yard STEAM Center ($47,000) and expanding contracts with:? The Oyate Group? Oliver Scholars? Prep for Prep? The RETI Center? Applications Submitted for several grants:? META LLama AI ($500,000)? Amazon Accelerator ($100,000)? The Pinkerton Foundation ($200,000)