Brief description of the project, 1-2 sentences. Include who the project will impact, what type of activities will take place or what resources will be created, and give a sense of your time frame and big picture goals.Cambio Solar is a solar workforce training program, green entrepreneurship accelerator, and future cooperative solar installer on a mission to create access to clean energy jobs, utilities savings through community solar projects, and green cooperative and businesses ownership for NYC’s most economically and environmentally vulnerable community members. Our proposal is to launch the pilot program of Cambio Solar from Fall 2024 - Fall 2025 at Mott Haven Houses in the South Bronx, where the NYCHA Community Center will be activated on a weekly basis to deliver the Cambio Solar Program over 9 months - delivering solar and green entrepreneurship training, followed by subsequent paid internship and clean energy job placement.  Who benefits: NYCHA residents at Mott Haven Houses that will develop employment and wealth in the clean energy workforceActivities and resources: Cambio Solar program delivery as a solar workforce training program, renewable energy startup accelerator, and the launch of Cambio Solar as a cooperative solar installer and employerTime Frame: delivery from Fall 2024 - Fall 2025Big Picture Goal: to develop Cambio Hubs across the city - publicly accessible community spaces that can provide access to educational programs, accelerators, green workforce opportunities, technology, coaching and mentorship, and other community aid and social services.Where is the impact of this work?The Bronx, Manhattan, and QueensArea of work, check all that apply:Education/STEMEntrepreneurshipEnvironmentHousingSocial / Environmental JusticeYouth EngagementDescribe your connection to the community you plan to work with in 1-2 sentences.Cambio Labs works actively in the South Bronx community - delivering school programs to schools like Comp Sci HIgh and the Lab School of Finance and Technology, and serving underrepresented entrepreneurs through business accelerators like Oyate’s Community Capital and the Communitas Ventures program. Through the launch of Startup NYCHA - Cambio’s entrepreneurship program co-designed with NYCHA residents - we have formed a relationship with Deborah Aviles, Tenement Association President of Mott Haven Houses, who is supportive of launching the Cambio Solar Program at Mott Haven’s Community Center. We deliver entrepreneurship programs at NYCHA through our Startup NYCHA initiative and have trained cohorts of predominantly NYCHA residents extensively for solar workforce development programs (RETI). Cambio Solar will be piloted in partnership with Mott Haven Houses with support and approval from TA President Deborah ? Connection to Mott Haven? Community Design of Startup NYCHA? Vision for Community Centers? All initiatives of Cambio are community focused, empowering community members to become change makers that can make impact in their local communities? Train up NYCHA residents to become instructors? Empower NYCHA lead solar cooperative business and startups. Encourage resident and community owned resources to become the solar installer that can greenify and build on NYCHA rooftops // access to free and affordable utilities, community solar opportunitiesHow much funding will you be requesting from NYC Connect to implement this project?  It is ok if this is an estimate. (Your reply must be in numbers only.)25,000Pitch Script Notes1) What is Cambio Solar?? A green workforce development program that teaches underserved community members about the clean energy workforce, solar installation, solar entrepreneurship, and helps them receive industry recognized certifications, internship and employment opportunities.  The Cambio Solar Program will leverage Cambio Labs’ Journey Platform, a gamified platform designed for replication and scale across NYC and beyond? A Green Innovation Accelerator that can incubate and grow new green cooperative and businesses that can create wealth, utilities savings, and community ownership over energy and wealth generating resources? A Community Solar initiative? A Cooperative Solar Installer and Employer2) How did this project come to be?? Cambio Labs experience in delivering Solar Training programs in partnership with RETI to NYCHA residents and marginalized communities in Red Hook? Cambio Labs’ process of launching Startup NYCHA: validated by the community through pop up tables, free entrepreneurship workshops, and various community engagement activities. Created a model for offering entrepreneurial programming to NYCHA residents across the city? History of work in the South Bronx, where we have developed a thriving social innovation ecosystem with cross-sectoral stakeholders (Oyate, Schools like CSH and Lab School, local nonprofits, accelerator like Communitas, entrepreneurs we serve from the Bronx)? Recent partnership with Mott Haven Houses to pilot Cambio Solar Program. We will be using Mott Haven Houses’ Community Space to pilot Cambio Solar, and to create an accessible space for community support, education, and mutual aid3) The Power of our Ecosystem…..(unions, nonprofits, NYCHA, employers, solar and green workforce partners and ecosystem)+ Most important stakeholder: the community that we are serving…+ Emphasize participatory and inclusive design process4) Our Proposal25K for pilot program at Mott HavenDescription of programming and usage for funds for weekly Cambio Solar SessionsDescription of ImpactFuture Vision: Cambio Hubs, publicly accessible community centersFuture Vision: national expansion