Brief Description of Organization: *  (2941/3000 Characters) Cambio Labs is dedicated to bridging the education and opportunity gaps that disproportionately affect low-income youth in New York City. The majority of durable skills that employers are hiring for—such as leadership, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity—are not adequately developed in most recent high school graduates, with employers reporting that less than 25% of recent graduates are qualified for entry level roles.  We see this system failure especially for our students of color,  with 1 in 3 BIPOC students nationally attending schools known as dropout factories, with graduation rates below 60%.  The students we serve live in the South Bronx, located in the nation's poorest Congressional Districts. Our work focuses on rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and work-based learning opportunities, which are critical for securing higher-paying jobs.Cambio Labs was created as a response to education inequities that limit the ability of low income youth across New York City to create businesses, advocate for their communities, and find gainful employment. Our mission is to equip these young individuals with marketable skills like public speaking, teamwork, collaboration, and innovation. We achieve this through a curriculum that emphasizes social responsibility and project-based learning. Additionally, our program connects students with trusted mentors in the fields of technology, finance, sustainability, and entrepreneurship. Developed by a team of social entrepreneurs, educators, and youth, and in collaboration with community-based organizations, our program is designed to adapt to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our students are prepared to excel in their future careers or social ventures.Participants develop diverse portfolios of projects, master the art of pitching their ventures, establish vital industry connections, learn to work in teams, and gain increased self-confidence. At Cambio Labs, we champion a new generation of entrepreneurs who prioritize and uplift their neighborhoods, revolutionizing the entrepreneurship landscape in low income communities.Sebastián Martín is a latinx social entrepreneur and educator who founded Cambio Labs in 2021 upon returning from Shanghai, where he founded and ran Cambio Coffee, a benefit corporation that retailed direct trade, specialty organic coffee from indigenous cooperatives in Latin America for over five years. While teaching social entrepreneurship at universities and high schools in New York, he realized that social entrepreneurship education for BIPOC youth was being delivered piecemeal with few coordinated resources, and within a system steeped in inequity. Through work-based learning solutions, he wants young social entrepreneurs to thrive in ways that our conventional high school infrastructure does not permit. To date, Cambio Labs has served over 350 young social entrepreneurs.Please attach a narrative that describes the qualities & contributions of this nominee. Use the following questions as a guide:Why do you think they should be honored? What makes them an extraordinary afterschool educator? How has this person contributed to youth, the community, and the organization? How does this person set an example for youth and peers (other youth workers)?Sebastián warrants honor for his profound impact on youth empowerment and education. His approach transcends typical after-school programming by actively seeking to dismantle systemic barriers that hinder marginalized youth. He has significantly contributed to the community by making business education accessible to underestimated communities and ensuring that his programs are cost-free, thanks to his selfless financial sacrifices and robust partnerships.What sets Sebastián apart as an extraordinary after-school educator is his hands-on methodology. He not only teaches entrepreneurship but also embodies the very spirit of it. By showing young people how to view community challenges as catalysts for innovation, he is fostering a new generation of change-makers.His personal journey as a social entrepreneur, from aiding Bolivian coffee farmers to mentoring BIPOC youth in New York, demonstrates his dedication to social equity. This narrative serves as a powerful example to both students and peers, illustrating how one can leverage personal experiences and entrepreneurship for social good.Sebastián's impact is tangible: from directing Cambio Labs to address educational inequities, to hosting workshops for trans youth of color and undocumented students, to integrating AI tools into education and entrepreneurship. His commitment to innovation is further highlighted by Cambio Labs’ recent initiative to bring green entrepreneurship to New York's public housing residents. In summary, Sebastián exemplifies the virtues of a leader who not only educates but also inspires action and resilience in the face of adversity.