Data sources. Briefly summarize the data sources you will be leveraging using AI related tools and how accessible this data is to your organization. (i.e., Is it stored in a way that is readily accessible, and are there major legal, privacy or regulatory concerns around access and use of this data?) Firstly we will use our own proprietary learner interaction data through our learning management platform, Journey - i.e. the user’s performance as they progress through the curriculum will determine the level of feedback and assistance they receive. We will anonymize and use this data in compliance with GDPR and CCPA to improve the learning experience.We will then scrape data from research articles, papers and other open-source datasets to train Sparky on social entrepreneurship and career-seeking best practices, soft skills, and coaching best practices, in order to help us design a robust, research-based feedback mechanism and a gamified, project-based learning journey to take the user through. We will then scrape data from job boards and job sites, as well as career-specific forums and blog articles, to create job-specific training and upskilling materials. This information is readily accessible and should not be met with regulatory concerns.Technical expertise. For this project, does the necessary technical expertise currently reside within your organization? With a consulting firm? Or an external partner? a. If a consulting firm or external partner, please provide their organization name, website, and key project team members.Yes, the necessary technical expertise currently resides within our organization, supported by a combination of internal team members and external partnerships. Our Director of Product & Technology, Sarah Zou, leads the technical development of our AI-powered platform and has extensive experience in product management, machine learning integration, and user experience design. Sarah has successfully overseen the development of Sparky, our AI-driven learning assistant, ensuring the seamless integration of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms into our platform. Her leadership has been pivotal in enhancing mobile accessibility and AI-driven personalized learning across our curriculum.Our Full Stack Developer, Andrej Håkansson, brings significant expertise in AI architecture, cloud-based platforms, and data management systems. Andrej is responsible for building and scaling our proprietary learning platform, Journey, ensuring that it remains robust, scalable, and adaptive to the needs of thousands of users. He is instrumental in implementing AI-driven performance analytics and ensuring the backend infrastructure can support our growing user base.a. Additionally, we have external partnerships that further enhance our capabilities. We are collaborating with Cornell Tech’s Breakthrough AI program and work closely with their Machine Learning and Data Science volunteers. These collaborations ensure that our AI, Sparky, is trained effectively and continuously improved to provide adaptive, real-time feedback tailored to individual users. This external partnership complements the expertise within our team and strengthens our ability to stay at the forefront of AI and educational technology innovations.Through this blend of in-house expertise and strategic external partnerships, we are well-equipped to meet the technical demands of this project.Ethics and bias. Are there any significant ethical or bias related concerns with the use of these technologies in your project, and if so, how do you expect to approach or mitigate those concerns? See more here. While our project aims to promote equitable access to education and career opportunities, we recognize potential ethical or bias-related concerns with the use of AI technologies. To mitigate these concerns, we will:? Ensure our AI models are trained on diverse datasets to minimize bias. Our curricular development team aspires to highlight the entrepreneurial narratives, successes and strategies of diverse entrepreneurs. We also train our AI models on liberatory and community-centered design, a foundational piece of our curriculum.? Regularly audit our algorithms for fairness and accuracy. We also ensure learners in our program learn to engage critically with AI-generated content? Implement transparent data practices, obtaining informed consent from users and adhering to data privacy regulations like GDPR and COPPA. We have developed AI internal and external policies in consultation with pro-bono lawyers through our partnership with We the Action? Engage with community stakeholders and platform users throughout the design process to incorporate feedback and address any ethical concerns.