Why is an AmeriCorps member the best resource for your proposed project at this time?Americorp would be the best resource because of our commitment to building deep relationships with public housing residents and engaging them in co-designing programming for their communities.  This requires a consistent counterpart for each cohort before and after the program, which usually lasts 6 months.  We are currently scaling outreach efforts to NYCHA residents who could benefit from solar job training and entrepreneurship programs?.We would like support in developing workforce pipelines by establishing partnerships with solar companies, green cooperatives, and social impact investors?; strengthening program evaluation to track participant outcomes, ensuring continued funding and long-term sustainability?.We are also interested in co-leading workshops with rising educators who would be interested in designing and co-facilitating design thinking workshops and volunteer opportunities.How will your agency ensure the AmeriCorps member(s) does not duplicate or displace the work of any current or proposed employee positions?Cambio Labs will ensure that AmeriCorps members focus on capacity-building, volunteer coordination, and program outreach, rather than replacing paid staff. Key distinctions include:AmeriCorps roles will focus on volunteer engagement, program development, and outreach efforts, rather than direct program facilitation.Core program instruction and curriculum development will remain under the purview of existing staff (e.g., instructors for Cambio Solar, Startup NYCHA facilitators)?.AmeriCorps members will support, rather than replace, staff by enhancing long-term impact and sustainability efforts, such as:? Conducting community outreach and partnership-building rather than replacing paid program facilitators.? Strengthening volunteer management systems to support participant mentorship.? Assisting with data collection and program impact evaluation to secure future funding?.How will an AmeriCorps member increase the impact of your organization/agency and help advance equity for New York City residents?AmeriCorps members will expand outreach, strengthen workforce pipelines, and enhance mentorship networks, ensuring more residents gain access to sustainable careers and business ownership opportunities. Their work will directly support Cambio Solar’s clean energy job training and Startup NYCHA’s entrepreneurship incubator, increasing participant recruitment, volunteer engagement, and industry partnerships. By embedding social capital-building strategies, such as mentorship initiatives and cooperative ownership models, AmeriCorps members will advance equity by equipping participants with the networks and resources needed to break cycles of poverty and exclusion, driving long-term economic empowerment and community-led innovation.