Organization MissionIn 750 characters or less, please provide a brief description of your organization's work and the significance of the efforts.Cambio Labs is a nonprofit that creates educational technology and curricular programs that transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. We are piloting the Journey program as a social entrepreneurship course and online learning platform where teen entrepreneurs work with teammates to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Throughout the program, students engage in entrepreneurial coaching from industry professionals, and are exposed to internship and job opportunities from partner organizations in the fields of tech, sustainability, design, and innovation.How does your organization measure impact? What outputs does your organization measure?In 750 characters or less.We regularly survey students that are completing Cambio Labs' Journey program to assess their progress and our impact. Outcomes that will define success for our venture include: evidence of academic improvements for students in school, increased graduation rates, increased college acceptance rates, increased job placement for students, increased income for students, and the creation of new business ventures by our alumni. This data will be captured through surveys and interviews with students throughout the program, and importantly after the program, as it will be crucial for our team to capture longitudinal data from our alumni community.What were some of those outputs over the past three years?In 750 characters or less.Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with students that attend Comp Sci High - based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district of the U.S. The results have been positive, with the majority of students reporting improved academic performance, significant durable skills development, and increased confidence in applying for colleges and jobs. An important output has been the creation of 4 student-led social ventures: a fashion label that creates clothing for teens of color with diverse body types, a series of events and interventions that address gun violence, an online resource hub for low income and housing insecure people, and a supermarket that celebrates diverse cultures through storytelling and food.Program DescriptionIn 750 characters or less, please provide an overview of the program that you are seeking funding for, the overall objectives of the program, including the target population this project program will address. If seeking administrative support, please describe how funding will specifically be used to support particular programs, projects, or services provided by your organization.Journey: A Social Entrepreneurship Incubator @ NYCHAThe purpose of this program is to empower NYCHA (New York City Housing Authority) youth to develop entrepreneurial skills and launch social ventures that address local social problems. The target population will be youth between the ages of 15-18, and residents of NYCHA (public and affordable housing in NYC). Objectives: to successfully launch a weekly, after school program; to help students develop durable and employability skills (i.e., creative problem solving, communication, team work); to connect students to mentors and internship or employment opportunities; and to train an adult NYCHA resident as a salaried Journey Instructor that can fully take over program management and instruction in Year 2 as a salaried, part-time worker.cooperative business owners, sustainable industry workers, and architects of their own green future.Our initiative consists of developing and delivering a green entrepreneurship accelerator program to NYCHA residents between the ages of 18 - 26, with the objective of: a) helping them establish their own sustainable startups or cooperatives, or b) providing them with the training and mentorship to secure jobs in the environmental, innovation, or technology sectors.Training of NYCHA residentThis proposal is for the development and financing of a pilot project to be delivered in 2022.What is the anticipated impact of this program, and how will you measure it?In 750 characters or lessDirect impact: sponsor 20 NYCHA youth to participate; sponsor 1 adult NYCHA resident instructor to be trained and employed. To assess our program’s impact, we will capture data through observations and surveys including: students’ academic performance in school, student’s development of durable and employability skills, student engagement in program, the placement of students into summer internship and jobs, the establishment of new student ventures, and the generation of student and venture income after program completion. The instructional readiness of the Instructor in training will be measured by a combination of surveys and by qualitative assessments of real instructional experiences. Our technology platform will also be tested for the purposes of scale.   Completion of program by 20 studentsTraining of 1 NYCHA instructor that can take over program in Year 2Sustainable source of income and economic empowerment for NYCHA instructor.Outcomes for studentsInternship and job opportunities that can lead to diversified techEstablishment of incubators at NYCHA - through the collaboration of nonprofit, corporate, and government sectors. Cross-sectoral social innovationLaying down the groundwork for calling this across multiple NYCHA developmentsWhat tangible results are you most proud of that your organization has achieved in the past three years?In 750 characters or lessI am proud that I employed two high school coders to create the functional beta version of our Journey digital platform. We then tested our platform with students at Comp Sci during our 2022 pilot. I am proud that we served underestimated youth in the South Bronx, with 100% of our pilot students being students of color and 90% of them qualifying for free lunches at school. I am proud that we successfully onboarded 4 Cambio Coaches to participate in the pilot program and gathered perks and volunteer services from a network of professionals that wanted to support our cause. Finally, after a year of making a lot happen with very little resources - I am proud that we have confirmed 4 paid program engagements for the summer of 2022.Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. Throughout the pilot program, our team has surveyed students about their development of “durable skills,” and satisfaction with our program and technology platform. We received valuable feedback that has led to changes in our web product’s functionality and interface.Development of the Journey 1.0 platformSuccessful launch of pilot at Comp Sci Highincluding the onboarding of prizes and coachesConfirmation of various summer projects and potential 2022-23 engagementsCreation of a DAO infrastructure and blockchain based system to distribute certifications, tokens, and creditWhat challenges has your organization faced in the past three years?In 750 characters or lessThere have been many challenges that we’ve faced throughout the launch of Cambio Labs. After leaving my full time teaching position about a year ago to launch this organization, I relied on spending my limited savings to finance the development of our technology and programming. I am not a technical founder, and it was a challenge to develop a digital learning interface for the first time, and to manage high school aged coders that did not have extensive professional experience. It was also a challenge to introduce our programming to schools in the summer of 2021 - in the thick of the pandemic context, when administrators were more preoccupied with reopening school successfully than introducing new curricular programs. Despite the challenges, I am proud of our progress!  Funding - bootstrapping challengeDeveloping a tech platform with limited resourcesLack of staff and team to accomplish a lot of goalsDealing with the pandemic context while trying to attract school partnersNot having a pilot for low income students established yet, but trying to convince partnersUnderstanding the complexities of nonprofit operations, filing, and governancePlease list any engagement opportunities available to BlackRock employees with this program or your organization, including frequency and any prerequisites. Engagement opportunities can include in-person or virtual volunteerism, mentorship, pro-bono work, board service, etc.In 750 characters or lessThere are multiple engagement opportunities for BlackRock employees to support our programming - our platform and strategy is in fact designed for the onboarding of corporate volunteers and in-kind services! Employees can sign on as “Cambio Coaches” and be trained to support student entrepreneur teams through mentorship and business coaching (this can be a monthly virtual engagement) Employees can also offer specific services (according to their expertise) and hours of their time as part of the Journey platform’s Perks & Rewards page, where students can cash in on real world rewards with the points they’ve earned by learning and completing entrepreneurial challenges (virtual delivery subject to the availability of employee).