Cambio Labs Social Entrepreneurship ProgramProgram Description: during the Social Entrepreneurship Program, student entrepreneurs will work with co-founders to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Program participants will also receive accounts for Journey, an online innovation learning platform complete with video lessons, prompts and project-based challenges, assessment and feedback tools, and real world rewards and professional services that students can earn as they learn.Throughout the program, students identify a social or environmental issue, create teams, interact with community members, conduct research, create real world prototypes and websites, test their products with real potential users, and pitch their business organizations for prizes. This is an intensive course, where students will go through a real world entrepreneurial process. This is an extremely hands-on and practical learning experience that is rarely offered - even at the college and postgraduate levels of business school.Program Outcomes: learners will develop entrepreneurial and designer mindset while working with their teams to create companies that solve real problems. Students develop communication, collaboration, prototyping, creative brainstorming, pitching, and business management skills. They will also be connected to professional mentors, gamified rewards, and internship/job opportunities once they become part of the Cambio Labs alumni network.Measurement & tracking: throughout the program, students will continually be surveyed about the development of their innovation abilities, academic performance, and preparedness for the workforce. Data about students’ attendance, engagement, and submission rates will also be continually tracked and reported on the Journey platform. At the end of the program, a comprehensive report will be delivered to Comp Sci High that includes a summary of the aforementioned data set summary, results around new venture creation, and results around increased student income or new job opportunity acquisition.Program Outline:Checkpoint / UnitContentMode of InstructionWeek 1: InitiationOrientation, Introduction to Entrepreneurship & Social InnovationIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 2: Startup Team ChallengeStartup Team Formation, Social Innovation Challenge & PitchingIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 3: Design ThinkingDesign Thinking Introduction, Problem & Stakeholder Analysis, Empathy Research, Field Work Preparation In-person facilitation with platformWeek 4: Field WorkIn-field: Community Engagement & Empathy Research with Local Community PartnersIn-person facilitation with platform + Community EngagementWeek 5: Solution IdeationParticipatory Design: Brainstorming & Solution Ideation Process in partnership with local community partnerIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 6: Business ModelBusiness Model Creation, Revenue & Cost Structures, Impact Model Creation, Final Pitch IntroductionIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 7: Final Pitch PrepCommunity Member Feedback, Sustainability Plans, Prepping for Final Pitches In-person facilitation with platformWeek 8: Social Venture Pitches & AwardsFinal Public Pitch with community, school, and political stakeholders. Awards ceremony; grants to sponsor ongoing community projects & social venturesIn-person facilitation with Cambio Labs team & student teams + Community EngagementProgram Length: 8 weeks, to be completed between January and March of 2023Cohort Size: 10-25 studentsTarget Demographic: Grades 10-12Weekly Schedule: this internship experience will take place twice per week, with students receiving synchronized instruction on:? Wednesdays: in-person incubator experience at Comp Sci High campus [2 hours], facilitated by Cambio Labs Founder Sebastián Martín? Mondays: virtual office hours and collaborative teamwork time for students to review course materials and complete weekly challenges [1 hour]Total Instructional Hours: 24 hoursOther Ecosystem Features & Benefits:? Cambio Coaches Program? Perks & Rewards on Journey Platform? Internship Opportunities: CASW & Work Learn Grow, Cambio Labs Internships, RETI & Good Shepherd Services Internships, Communitas America? Oliver Scholars - All Star Code collaboration?? Other Program Partners: Amazon, Google, NYCHA? Technological Focus & Blockchain ProjectsBroader picture:? Pipeline through high school and beyond? Broader collaboration:? Fundraising for grants togetherPricing:ItemDescriptionCost (in USD)Journey Platform licensing - Usage & SupportIncludes customized platform, technical support, permanent access for students, evergreen content & opportunities for earning rewards$5,000InstructionIncludes live and virtual expert instruction from Cambio Labs Founder, Sebastián Martín, and ongoing training, PD, or co-teaching opportunities for interested CSH staff $12,000Supplies & MaterialsSoftware, classroom & event suppliesIncludedTotal Program Cost$17,000