1. Provide your elevator pitch describing your venture and product. (1-2 sentences) We create transformative business training and ed tech for low-income BIPOC youth to address the systemic edu-digital gaps that hinder their access to high paying jobs and entrepreneurial ventures. 2. Problem: What is the issue is your product or service is addressing? (1-4 sentences) The problem we are addressing is the systemic underinvestments in education systems, outdated curricula, and unequal access to digital skills development in BIPOC communities. We are addressing the resulting exclusion of youth from access to high-paying jobs, and the foundational knowledge and support networks to design and launch their own businesses.  3. Solution: What is your product and/or service? (1-3 sentences)We create transformative, culturally-competent business programs for youth, which we deliver through a gamified learning management system that we designed, called the Journey platform.  Our curriculum is designed to empower youth to leverage technology to design and launch impactful businesses to solve issues in their communities. Our signature program culminates in a business pitch competition, where students are assessed on their ability to articulate the problem their ventures address, the social impact of their solution, their understanding of the target market, the uniqueness and demand for their product or service, their marketing and sustainability strategies, financial viability, team competencies, and effective presentation skills.4. Fit: Briefly describe how you use AI in your solution (product and/or service)?Part of our curriculum specifically focuses on empowering students to leverage AI and technology for business creation and equipping them with the adaptability to thrive in a shifting job market.  We accomplish this through 4 distinct modules that deliver the following four competencies; (i) Technical Empowerment: Comprehensive understanding of AI, fostering critical thinking and technical skills; (ii) Future-Readiness: Equipping students them with tools for a technology-driven landscape; (iii) Innovation and Creativity: Encouraging hands-on experience and initiative, inspiring students to create practical AI solutions; and (iv) Advantageous Certification Providing experience, skills, and certification beneficial for college applications and career opportunities through NFTs and Blockchain.  Finally, AI is an integral part of how we, as educators, plan to tailor the learning experience to our users and provide real-time feedback in our educational platform.  We are in the process of developing our own custom bot that is trained in our curriculum to support and tutor our youth. We would like to be able to make data-based decisions in improving our course delivery, and we see AI as an integral part of this.5. Business Model: How do you (or will you) plan to make money? Who is paying how much for your product or service? At Cambio Labs, we align our initiatives with the needs of our participants and partner organizations. Our formats are diverse, ranging from 2-day workshops, 3-week programs using partner-specific educational content on our digital platform, and even our renowned 5-8 week social entrepreneurship program.We partner with nonprofit organizations, charter schools, and now public school afterschool programs. On average, our programs cost around $27,000 for a 5-week program.  These community based programs vary in their needs, budgets and are usually grant recipients who subcontract us for social entrepreneurship training or for our software. While our programs vary in length and content, a unifying feature is a culminating pitch competition. This provides an opportunity for our aspiring entrepreneurs to present the social ventures they've been working on to judges, who are entrepreneurs or experienced business leaders. In preparation for this pitch, our learning platform offers team and individual challenges and prompts throughout the program for participants to earn "gemstones". These gemstones can be redeemed for mentoring sessions with our network of volunteers and leaders from the tech, sustainability, and innovation sectors.Wherever feasible, we partner with third parties to provide stipends, ensuring our programming is accessible to students from lower-income backgrounds. Further, depending on the cross-sectoral partnerships we involve for each program, we offer a variety of support for winning teams, including seed capital, scholarship opportunities, and connections to other accelerators. We also involve our program alumni as paid mentors and co-facilitators, contributing to a sustainable cycle of learning and growth.An example of our approach can be seen in our signature programming. Originally an 8-week course, our incubator program has been adapted to various durations to accommodate different needs and preferences. Our structured 8-week curriculum at Cambio Labs is designed to empower participants with entrepreneurial skills that contribute significantly to economic mobility. We have trained 14 instructors from the community through an intensive in-person and virtual instructor bootcamp, which ranges between three and five days, as part of our hiring process. Here's how each week unfolds:6. Market: Who is your customer (payer)? Who is the beneficiary? What are the number of potential customers (payers) for your product in the U.S. (aka - your TAM - total addressable market)?Cambio Labs’ customers include innovative charter schools and nonprofits dedicated to uplifting underestimated youth and adults in underserved urban areas, including New York City. These organizations engage our expertise in social entrepreneurship and educational technology to foster transformative learning experiences and create new opportunities for their communities.  Beneficiaries include youth as early as middle school, up to age 26 for our green workforce development programs. In the US, there are over 8000 charter schools serving over 1.3 million students. As of 2022, there are 98,916 after-school program providers in the US. However, this number does not capture the full demand for such programs. According to the Afterschool Alliance, 10.2 million children participate in after-school programs, but another 19.4 million children would participate if a program were available. For our older youth participants, there are 1,043 community colleges in the US as of 2021, many of which offer workforce development programsIn terms of workforce development programming, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) provides career and training services to millions of job seekers. In Texas alone, there are 28 local Workforce Development Boards overseeing more than 170 programs- however there isn’t federal data in the total number of programs.  In terms of public job training, a report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office identified 47 employment and training programs administered by the federal government, and in fiscal year 2019, the federal government spent $18.9 billion on worker training across these programs.The U.S. Department of Commerce mentions a program that has expanded to 660 institutions, covering more than 25% of all college graduates in the US in 2015.In addition, there were nearly 27,000 registered apprenticeship programs active across the nation in FY 2021.7. Market: Where are your customers? (what geographic markets do you currently serve and how will that change in the next two years) Currently, we are serving the NYC metropolitan area, and have delivered programming in San Francisco for the Mayor’s Office initiative on Opportunities for All.   In the next two years, we hope to continue to expand our reach in the New York City area by working to serve NYCHA residents through our current Startup NYCHA initiative and to continue expanding our footprint with NYC Public Schools.8. Go to Market: How do you acquire your customers?Primarily through word-of-mouth recommendations from previous partners between program leadership/administrators.  All of our programming so far has involved cross-sectoral collaborations which has enabled us currently to branch into serving public schools, for example, at the Brooklyn Navy Yard’s STEAM Center.9. Competitors: Who are your competitors and what makes you different (i.e. your competitive advantage)? Cambio Labs stands out in the competitive landscape through its specific commitment to improving accessibility for low-income BIPOC students to business and digital competencies  by offering free or paid internship programs and designing ed tech to support their learning that is interactive, digitized, and gamified. This approach not only caters to the unique needs of each cohort but also aligns with the evolving digital landscape, enhancing both engagement and learning outcomes.We create transformative curricula that will enable youth to transform problems in their community into opportunities to provide business solutions through design thinking, liberatory design, and focusing on how technology can bring these solutions to life.In Washington, DC, a similar competitor is  LearnServe International (Washington, DC), which  inspired Cambio Labs’ CEO, Sebastian, to become a mission-driven leader, when he was in high school. He is one of their first graduates and was awarded their Entrepreneurship Award in 2018. Our main difference is our focus on low-income BIPOC students and that we do not serve private schools. Currently, their program costs students between $1250-2000; ours is free of charge to the students. In addition, our curriculum design specifically addresses the needs of each cohort by seeking input from the students, our partners, and the community. We also prioritize digitizing our curriculum to increase scalability and adopted a train-the-trainer program in NYC and San Francisco, in collaboration with the Mayor’s program of Opportunities for All (OFA). Another close competitor is Project Invent (San Francisco, CA), which offers design thinking, engineering, and technology courses to students grades 9-12. Our organization also offers design thinking along with many other concepts and skills with distinct emphasis on social entrepreneurship. Moreover, we remain steadfast in our commitment to providing these learning experiences free of charge, or even as paid internships. Programs at Project Invent cost students between $495 for a year-long course and $1995 for the summer immersion program. They offer their curriculum open and free in the form of publicly available slides. Our curriculum uses a highly interactive, digitized, and gamified platform that enhances engagement and learning.Uncharted Learning (Illinois) shares our goal of nurturing youth entrepreneurship (grades 6-12) and has introduced a train-the-trainer program. Our focus is social entrepreneurship—a critical difference that guides our program development and delivery. Additionally, we ensure our programs remain accessible to all students. While they also partner with schools, the cost of Uncharted Learning's offerings is $1500-$2500 per student for their INCubatoredu Program and ACCELeratoredu Program, respectively, which often limits the participation of schools in their offerings.10. Financials: What is your company's MRR (MRR stands for 'monthly recurring revenue'). If you are unsure, enter your revenue received for last month. For example, enter "1000000" for $1,000,000. It is OK to enter '0' if you are pre-revenue! $12,37511.Financials: What are the total funds raised to date? (money received) 320,00012. Traction: Are there any traction metrics you want to share? (e.g. total # of sign-ups, # of partners, # of customers, total revenue to date) # of participantsSince we launched in 2021, we have engaged over 350 participants, and we have delivered 22 programs. Our total revenue is $320,000.13. Team: Who is on your founding team (Name, role, LinkedIn link)? Which team members will be attending Catalyst? (1 sentence for each person) Sebastián Martín, as the leader of Cambio Labs, brings a unique combination of social innovation, empowerment, and educational technology expertise, making him exceptionally suited to spearhead the proposed project. His experience in founding Cambio Coffee and his deep understanding of the educational challenges faced by BIPOC youth in New York demonstrate his commitment to creating impactful solutions. Sebastián's ability to leverage technology for educational purposes, coupled with his innovative approach to social entrepreneurship, positions him perfectly to lead an initiative that aims to revolutionize social entrepreneurship education for BIPOC youth. His leadership is crucial in guiding the project to not only educate but also inspire and equip young social entrepreneurs. Lived Experience: As much as you are comfortable, please share how members of your founding team relate to the issue your product addresses (Select all that apply)  Is/was personally affected by the issue Has/had a family member affected by the issue Previously lived in a community (geographic) that is or was affected by the issue Currently lives in a community (geographic) that is or was affected by the issue This issue is disproportionately experienced by people who share one or more of our teams' social identities (e.g. racial/ethnic/gender/religious) Has relevant professional experience Has training/education related to the issue Prefer not to answer Prefer to describe 15.What is your startup's business structure? X Non-Profit16 How will your team utilize our user Design Insight Group (DIG) if at all? (more on DIG here www.labs.robinhood.org/dig) See previousIt is intrinsic to our model to design with the community when we design for the community, and we see ourselves consulting with the community on their responses to our curricula design.  We teach and embody the belief that empathy research is crucial in designing social businesses for communities, as it ensures that the solutions developed are deeply aligned with the actual needs, experiences, and perspectives of those they aim to serve. We strive to avoid the pitfalls of imposing top-down solutions that may not address, or could even exacerbate, existing inequalities and social challenges.Most recently, we led workshops at NYCHA to co-design a pilot program in 2024, and we have several new initiatives that would benefit tremendously from community feedback; (i) expansion of our work in green workforce development- particularly in solar energy;  (ii) integration of AI to support learning and to equip entrepreneurs; (iii) an updated UX interface for training instructors through our platform.17 How do you expect your product will improve the lives of low income individuals? Our programs are designed to create access for underestimated youth and adults to entrepreneurial education so they can launch their own companies, secure employment and internship opportunities, and launch community-based projects that address local social and environmental challenges.Free social entrepreneurship training and paid apprenticeships for marginalized youth could help alleviate poverty in New York City by providing them with the skills and opportunities to secure stable and well-paying jobs, and the skills to start their own businesses and empower themselves and their communities. All New Yorkers, regardless of zip code or income level, deserve access to economic opportunity, business ownership, and the tools of innovation. Our hope is that this inaugural pilot marks the beginning of a city-wide entrepreneurial movement within NYC by demonstrating what is possible when we provide youth with the programs, support, and resources to become founders of socially and environmentally responsible businesses and organizations.18 Fit: Why is Robin Hood, and in particular, Catalyst, a good program for your product, outside of the funding we provide? See previousWe are very aligned in our commitment to driving social change and enduring poverty alleviation through social innovation and technology. For Cambio, we are at a pivotal point in our venture, having tested the second iteration of our MVP with 22 different programs since launching in 2021; and Blue Ridge Catalyst’s expertise, mentorship, community, and funding could not come at a more crucial moment to support scaling up of our operations. It contains multimedia lessons, project-based challenges, points called "gemstones", and rewards that entrepreneurs can earn as they learn and complete startup milestones. We hope to incorporate tools for course creators, instructors, and integrate AI to enhance and personalize the learning experience. We are at the stage where support from an accelerator like Blue Ridge would help us continue to validate our concept.In particular, Blue Ridge Catalyst’s focus on leveraging artificial intelligence for empowering youth is particularly aligned with our mission to tackle the digital divide by enabling youth to use artificial intelligence to support their educational and entrepreneurial growth.