How many students did you serve or reach in total in 2022? 155 How many total students are you serving now in 2023? 242 How many total students do you plan to serve in 2024?400 Are you at capacity? YesIf you are at capacity, what is preventing you from reaching or serving more students? We need funding to train and onboard instructors What grades do you serve?? 7th grade ? 8th grade ? 9th grade ? 10th grade ? 11th grade ? 12th grade Where do the majority of your students live? ? Urban neighborhoods What percent of your students are economically disadvantaged?   95%What percent of your students are English Language Learners? 10%What percent of your students are Students of Color? 100$What percent of your students are categorized as Special Education? 0%What is your graduation rate?100%Please list any special competitive grant awards or recognition that your organization or school has received in the past three years (other than general support and ongoing donations you receive from foundations or individuals). Include the date and funding amount when applicable. 4.0 Schools - Microsyndicate Grant & Tiny Fellowship ($15,000), 2023 City Fellowship, 2023 Coro Fellowship, West Side Community Fund Awardees($9,000)Please submit a bio for the lead applicant. Growing up, Cambio Labs founder, Sebasti‡n Mart’n, witnessed the hurdles his Latinx immigrant parents faced as BIPOC entrepreneurs. Upon launching his own social ventures, he realized neither the education nor entrepreneurship ecosystem was designed to prepare and empower social innovators in communities of color. For his first social venture, he decided to leverage the power of direct trade to empower local indigenous cooperatives in his mother's country, Bolivia, and began exporting and retailing their coffee in Shanghai. By eliminating the traditional chain of intermediaries - who often absorb a large portion of profits - this approach allowed farmers to retain a greater share of the value they produced. The challenges he faced during this 8-year venture made Sebastian recognize the scarcity of resources, mentorship, and second chances for entrepreneurs of color, and the failure of traditional education systems to adequately prepare students. He began teaching social entrepreneurship at universities, and, as the social innovation lead at a high school in New York, he realized that solutions available for delivering social entrepreneurship education for BIPOC youth were being delivered piecemeal with few coordinated resources, and within a system steeped in inequity. In response, he established Cambio Labs. How would you describe your mission? Cambio Labs is a nonprofit that empowers underestimated youth and young adults by providing access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities, and the building blocks to create generational wealth for themselves and their communities. We design and deliver transformative educational programs, technology, and cross-sectoral partnerships that equip program participants with the skills and networks to become founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Describe your governance model. Our curricula employs user-centered, liberatory design, whereby we invite community members to share the priorities, challenges, and strengths of their communities to design social entrepreneurship curricula and customize our platform. Internally, we have a flat organizational structure which ranges from volunteers, interns, to full-time employees and we report to our small board of four volunteer directors. How do you attract students and families? We partner with trusted community-based organizations with a mission of empowerment through unconventional education models to promote self-advocacy and empowerment. For new projects, such as Startup NYCHA, we build on relationships with community leaders such as tenant association president Miguel Acevedo, to host community design workshops, and canvas door-to-door to invite community members to weigh in on what kind of programming their communities need. We also reach out through materials with QR codes to more information and links to social media platforms. We ensure design and execution of our program in a culturally-relevant and responsive manner to resident needs. Who are you trying to help? Please be specific. Our target beneficiaries consist of low-income BIPOC adolescents (aged 13-18) and underemployed young adults (primarily between the ages of 18- 25) who seek career development and business creation training to help their families and communities. 95% of our program participants are BIPOC youth from low-income households in New York City and qualify for free lunch programs in their schools. Approximately 45% of beneficiaries live in public housing. Your Pitch Your Work Cambio Labs employs a transformative impact model that directly targets the deeply rooted inequalities in our education and societal systems. linkages to trusted mentors to marginalized youth in New York City, including our focal community of the South Bronx and with youth residing in public housing. Our target audience are BIPOC adolescents and young adults between the ages of 14-24. During Cambio Labs' eight-week Social Entrepreneurship Program (SEP), groups of student entrepreneurs work on teams to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Enrolled students and program facilitators will receive accounts for Journey, Cambio Labs' online learning platform containing lessons, videos, prompts and project-based challenges, teacher tools for facilitation and assessment, and gamified rewards and professional services that students can earn as they learn on our platform. Students identify hyper-local social and environmental issues, build teams, interact with real potential customers and local community members, conduct research, create real prototypes and websites, test their products with real users, develop a business model, and pitch to a panel of judges for prizes. Our SEP course is an intensive and immersive experience where students will go through a real world entrepreneurial process. This fully hands-on and practical learning experience leverages the best practices of student-centered, project based, and work based learning. Throughout the program, student teams will also be connected to Cambio Coaches that act as professional mentors as students develop their early stage companies. Sustainable Cambio Labs has a financially sustainable model that centers on delivering value to our youth. More than two thirds of our budget comes from program revenue, and all our client contracts and partner collaborations have renewed and expanded their contracts with us for 2023. From our first to second year, we have secured twice as many contracts and are in the process of pitching our social and green entrepreneurship programming for NYCHA (public housing developments in NYC) to corporate sponsors. Apart from securing some small grants from progressive funders, we are entering second rounds for other larger grants. Our revenue primarily comes from program fees that we charge partner educational organizations, which we invest in continuous innovation and improvement into how we deliver social entrepreneurial knowledge and resources. Not only are our programs always free for participants; we find ways to get them paid to engage in work-based learning opportunities. We offer a range of services to our educational partners, including curriculum development, customization of our platform, licensing agreements, course instruction, and train-the-teacher training. Our business model is built on co-designing with our partners, which allows us to be highly responsive and deliver customized solutions that meet their youths' specific needs. Transformational A cornerstone of our model is the incorporation of paid, project-based learning. This approach cultivates innovative, confident leaders who can spearhead meaningful community change. Our participants gain valuable experience and develop a deep sense of social responsibility and business acumen that has the potential to transform communities. With our program, entrepreneurs develop diverse portfolios of projects, master the art of pitching their ventures, and establish vital industry connections. At Cambio Labs, we champion entrepreneurs who prioritize and uplift their neighborhoods, revolutionizing the entrepreneurship landscape in low income communities. Cambio Labs aims to foster a thriving ecosystem for budding social entrepreneurs. By bridging the gap between underserved youth and tech and entrepreneurship spaces, we empower the next generation of changemakers with the networks, expertise and mentorship to thrive in today's economy. We also facilitate connections to introduce our entrepreneurs into a talent pipeline that can make workplaces more diverse and inclusive. Outstanding Through our partnership with schools and afterschool programs in the coming year, at least 162 youth will graduate from our program, having developed 21st century competencies like creative problem-solving, communication, collaboration, resilience, and community service. Completion of the program and presentation of projects will also exemplify that students will have developed entrepreneurial and designer mindset, business management skills, financial literacy, soft skills, social capital, empathy, and a sense of purpose through practice. Lastly, all students will be linked with at least one trusted and culturally competent mentor to guide their entrepreneurial growth through the program and beyond. Permissionless All people, regardless of zip code or income level, deserve access to economic opportunity, business ownership, and the tools of innovation. Cambio Labs is committed to addressing the deep-rooted inequities present in our education and social systems. We achieve this by empowering youth from underserved communities with durable, marketable skills through a cutting-edge, community-driven curriculum that uses project- based learning that focuses on social responsibility, and by providing opportunities to connect with trusted mentors in the field. Designed by social entrepreneurs and educators in partnership with community-based organizations, our program adapts to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our young entrepreneurs are prepared to excel in their future careers. Cambio Labs aims to foster a thriving ecosystem for budding social entrepreneurs. By bridging the gap between underserved youth and tech and entrepreneurship spaces, we empower the next generation of changemakers with the networks, expertise and mentorship to thrive in today's economy. We also facilitate connections to introduce our entrepreneurs into a talent pipeline that can make workplaces more diverse and inclusive. Your "Why" Why do you do what you do? Our youth is our why. Cambio Labs aims to bridge the education and opportunity gaps that disproportionately affect low-income youth in New York City. The majority of durable skills that employers are hiring for-such as leadership, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity-are not adequately developed in most recent high school graduates, with employers reporting that less than 25% of recent graduates are qualified for entry level roles. We see this system failure especially for our students of color, with 1 in 3 BIPOC students nationally attending schools known as dropout factories, with graduation rates below 60%. The students we serve live in the South Bronx, located in the nation's poorest Congressional Districts. Our work focuses on rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and work-based learning opportunities, which are critical for securing higher-paying jobs. If applicable: while it is now in our rearview mirror, the COVID pandemic impacted students in irreversible ways. Did it make you think differently about your organization's role in education? If so, how? Absolutely, COVID transformed how we connect with learners and how they connect with each other and the world around them. COVID heightened existing knowledge and emotional gaps in the educational system. As an educator during COVID, Cambio's founder realized that engaging and responsive technology was not only necessary but could be leveraged to make higher quality education more accessible to different learners who are marginalized in our current education system. We use technology to support team-based projects and to facilitate learning that supports the development of skills that will help them beyond the classroom; collaboration, adaptability, teamwork and innovation. Many of today's students are challenged by today's stressors. Education partners are addressing these challenges in a myriad of effective and innovative ways. Is there something special and innovative your school/organization is doing towards reducing the stressors and supporting the mental health of your students? If not applicable, you can leave this question blank. We are providing a safe space for BIPOC students to explore the challenges that worry them most in their communities by providing mentorship from leaders from their community, and by providing them the tools of business innovation and design thinking whereby they become agents, designers, and advocates of change. Our learning platform offers a supplementary avenue for students to explore written prompts and reflections to safely explore their concerns and dreams. Future Impact If you can expand, which cities and states would you expand to first and why? Please include your timeline for expansion here.We are bicoastal at the moment, but through our teach the teachers model and the scalability of our robust digital platform and curricula, we aim to expand to all cities to reach underestimated youth in the next five years. In our next year, we look forward to a robust partnership with the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) to expand throughout the city. If awarded the $1 million Yass Prize, how would you use the funding to provide even more sustainable, transformational, outstanding, and permissionless educational opportunities for students in the future? Our plan would be to train and hire instructors from the community to deliver our programming throughout New York City. Apart from providing seed funding for winning teams who go through our social entrepreneurship incubator, we aim to continue to provide payment for participants in the form of a paid apprenticeship to offset the costs of unpaid apprenticeships. Through our partnership with NYCHA, we would also want to equip community centers in NYCHA to narrow the digital divide for residents and we would invite other community-based ed tech nonprofits to partner to target different age groups. How would you adjust your ambitions if you won a lower award? In other words, if you won anywhere from $100K to $500K, how would you adjust your projections to reach, educate, or serve more students? We are an extremely scrappy but might team of two-full time individuals, and we would benefit tremendously from being able to invest into our digital platform to facilitate customization of our digital platform for each program with greater ease, automate greater data gathering, and expanding our ability to provide seed funding for winners of our pitch competitions for program participants. How much do you spend per student?1250Do you receive revenue per student from the state?No Do you collect tuition from students/families? No 