1. What issue or opportunity does your venture, product, or service intend to address? Suggested word count: 200 WordsGuidance: Your product or service should fill an unmet need. Unmet needs refer to truly painful issues. For these issues, customers and beneficiaries will go out of their way to find a remedy. Your response can include a quantitative assessment as supported by factual evidence and/or a qualitative overview of the problem. Ultimately, we believe lived experience is the most credible evidence. We want to hear how you understand the strengths and needs of the people you are serving. Issues addressed by Cambio Labs: 1) 1.2 million high school students dropout of high school in the US every year, and 1 in 3 BIPOC students in the US attend a "dropout factory" (graduating less than 60% of its students). During the pandemic, low income and BIPOC students of have disproportionately fallen behind academically. 2) Our U.S. school system is struggling to teach and measure “durable skills” - competencies and employability skills like problem-solving, leadership, communication, critical thinking, teamwork, adaptability, and creativity. After a review of 82 million job postings in 2021, America Succeeds found that seven out of 10 requested skills were classified as “durable skills”, and a 2021 ManpowerGroup survey found that 69% of businesses were struggling to find qualified talent compared to only 38% in 2015. Our current school system is failing to prepare students for the 21st century workforce. 3) BIPOC communities are severely underrepresented in entrepreneurship and tech: with entrepreneurs of color in the U.S. owning less than 20% of businesses with paid employees, and only 10% of Facebook employees being Black or Latinx despite representing 32% of the US population.   My lived experience has also confirmed this data. Reflecting back on my high school career, I wish that I had a class that introduced me to entrepreneurship and exposed me to real employment opportunities. Later in life, graduate business school also failed to prepare me for the practical realities of entrepreneurship: as a Latinx founder without special networks, I had to learn my most painful and valuable lessons on my own. As an educator that has taught throughout the pandemic, I know how difficult it is for students to maintain engagement with school, and that their social emotional and “durable skills” development has suffered tremendously. As a nonprofit founder working within the startup and tech industries, I have personally observed the lack of diversity and inclusion of low-income communities in business strategies and economic prosperity.1. What are your venture’s key activities and outcomes that address the need you are solving?  How have you improved your product or service to meet these needs?  Suggested  word count: 300 WordsGuidance: In the simplest terms, tell us what is your venture’s primary product or service. We believe that the best ideas are designed with your target audience and beneficiaries. We are looking for an understanding of how you have adapted to feedback from customers in order to improve your venture offerings. We also are looking to understand how you define success in these key activities and outcomes as well as how you’ll evaluate when success is achieved. Cambio Labs creates educational technology and curricular programs that transform students into social entrepreneurs, designers for impact, and community activists. We are delivering the Journey program as a social entrepreneurship course and online learning platform where entrepreneurs work with teammates to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Throughout the program, students and users engage in entrepreneurial coaching from industry professionals, and are exposed to internship and job opportunities from partner organizations in the fields of tech, sustainability, design, and innovation.As a nonprofit venture, our mission is to empower low income and underrepresented communities of color through free, sponsored programming. We prioritize and serve communities that have been historically marginalized from business ownership, access to capital, mentorship networks, and entrepreneurial education.How has our team improved our products throughout the development of Cambio Labs and the Journey platform? Throughout 2022, we have piloted and tested our program with students that attend Comp Sci High - a charter school based in the South Bronx in the poorest Congressional district in the U.S. 100% of our pilot students are students of color and 90% of them qualify for free lunches at school. Throughout the pilot program, our team has surveyed students about their development of “durable skills,” and satisfaction with our program and technology platform. We received valuable feedback that has led to changes in our web product’s functionality and interface. Our UX team repeatedly interviewed target students and teachers for the purposes of testing and receiving feedback about our platform design. As a founder, I am also constantly introducing our programming to potential customers and partners - i.e., teachers, school and district leaders, and leaders of workforce development and youth internship programs. Their feedback has informed crucial changes to our strategy and platform, including: ensuring that our curriculum always highlights entrepreneurs of color, recruiting BIPOC coaches, creating a robust suite of online teacher and coaching tools, packaging of student and cohort data that will be useful for schools and districts to measure “innovation development”, and aligning our program with state and school recognized credentials and program requirements.Outcomes that will define success for our venture include: evidence of academic improvements for students in school, increased graduation rates, increased college acceptance rates, increased job placement for students, increased income for students, and the creation of new business ventures by our alumni. This data will be captured through surveys and interviews with students throughout the program, and after the program, as it will be crucial for our team to capture longitudinal data from our alumni community.1. Who is your target market? In other words, who are your customers or beneficiaries? Why have you chosen this group as your target market? How do you plan to acquire customers or beneficiaries? Suggested  word count: 200 WordsGuidance: We want to see specifically who you expect will purchase or be the beneficiaries of your products or services and why you think they are your target market. How do you plan to get your target community or market’s attention? How do you plan to convert them into users of your product or service? We anticipate your response may include a quantitative assessment of the number or proportion of customers in your target market as well as a qualitative description of their characteristics and needs.While students and teachers/facilitators are the primary beneficiaries and users of our Journey product, our primary paying customers are high schools. Through my previous work as an educator and my initial market research, I know that on the individual school level the ones making purchasing and scheduling decisions are usually principals and administrators. Through various early sales conversations in 2021, I learned that school leaders are concerned about the following items when considering a new program: rigor of program, effect on student outcomes like academic performance or job placement, pricing of program, integration into the school’s existing schedule and tech stack, bandwidth of staff and their ability to teach an elective or afterschool course, and how adopting a new course aligns with their objectives for the school year (and in the pandemic context, I gleaned that school leaders were more preoccupied with reopening schools and building culture than introducing new programming). Much of the initial findings from my early market research proved positive: school leaders thought our digital learning platform was innovative and useful for the pandemic context; they saw tremendous value in entrepreneurial project based learning that was connected to gamified learning and real world industry exposure; and they thought that our price point of $7,000 per cohort (for curriculum, access to digital platform, and onboarding/support of their teachers) was extremely affordable in relation to comparable programs that can cost up to $20,000. Factors that prevented them from adopting our product for the 2021-22 school year included: concerns about reopening, concerns about overburdened teachers being able to deliver the program, and timing (we spoke in summer of 2021, after schools’ usual buying cycle between March - May). I also gleaned new useful insights: we must differentiate our marketing and sales approach for different types of schools (i.e., public, CTE, Title 1, or charter),  tapping into resources and advocates from the Department of Education and school networks can accelerate the sales cycle, automating core curricular content and creating robust teacher training and tools is critical for consistent quality program delivery, and that having a teacher refer and endorse you within the school is a very effective sales strategy. Marketing and sales strategies that I am implementing now to attract school partners for the 2022-23 include: social media campaigns, targeted email campaigns, networking at edtech conferences (i.e. ASU + GSV), reaching out to government agencies like the Mayor's Office and Burrough Education representatives in NYC, and leveraging connections and school networks in the Bronx that are associated with our pilot school partner, Comp Sci High. Our goal is to onboard 10 paying school partners and 10 sponsored Title 1 schools for 2022-23.1. What makes your venture profitable and/or financially sustainable? Suggested  word count: 200 WordsGuidance: Strong candidates ground their financials and projections in reality, while providing an ambitious, supportable financial path to success. We want to know at what budget or revenue amount you would expect to be sustainable.For non-profits, provide an overview of your fundraising strategy and potential or realized funders. We especially want to hear about plans to diversify revenue streams beyond philanthropy.For for-profits, provide an overview of your pricing model. We want to understand who is paying for the product or service and at what price point. If you have or are planning on fundraising, please share here as well. Cambio Labs focuses on leveraging multiple income streams: earned income, donations, grants, and corporate sponsorships. Since launching in the summer of 2021, we have earned a total of $2,034 in grassroots donations, $2,500 in sales (for the usage of our social entrepreneurship curriculum), and $7,500 in sponsorship from AT&T and the Here2Here charter school network to support our 2022 Journey summer internship program for Comp Sci High students. In total, that’s $12,034 of income while bootstrapping (not paying myself a salary) and spending a total $2,800 for software development services from two high school aged coders that have built the beta version of Journey. We have also used platforms like Catchafire and my personal network to leverage volunteer services from marketers, coaches, and advisors.After a scrappy start to our venture, I am very excited about an increased flow of projects and revenue that we have confirmed for this summer! We will be running two internship programs for nonprofit OFA in San Francisco, one summer internship for Comp Sci High in the Bronx, NYC, partnering to deliver a solar training program in Brooklyn, NYC, and running two design and entrepreneurship programs for nonprofit Prep for Prep in NYC - totalling $67.5K in sales and $30K in sponsorship from Amazon to support our solar project. Moving forward, I want to continue to leverage dual income streams: improving our philanthropic strategy by upgrading our marketing, donation campaigns, and applying for more grants and foundation funding… but I am most excited about continuing to develop our earned income strategy as we continue to sell subscriptions to Journey courses for schools and commercialize alternative applications of our digital learning platform. My ambition was to always create a “profitable nonprofit,” as I wholeheartedly believe that developing a killer business model is crucial for guaranteeing long term sustainability and social impact. The early interest and sales that we’ve recently generated is a testament to the value of our approach and technology. Future opportunities for income generation include: tapping into incubator, workforce development, and university markets that value our entrepreneurial learning platform; working with content and curriculum providers to help them adopt our gamified learning technology; and incorporating web 3 components like NFT credentials, “learn to earn” incentivization strategies, and establishing a tokenized venture fund and accelerator where Cambio Labs alumni can further develop their startups. To be financially sustainable, the minimum amount of operating capital we need is $200,000. I have also created plans and operating budgets for the $1M and $3M versions of Cambio Labs which could scale our Journey curriculum and learning technology nationally and globally. 