1. Reflect on your innovator journey.2. Review the activities and choose one that stands out as either exceptionally joyful or challenging in your journey. Write a brief story (maximum 250 words) describing your experience with the selected activity.3. The goal is to feature relatable human stories on this website, providing early-stage innovators with valuable learning experiences.Understand how collaboration has the potential to expand impact (Community)The process of identifying and engaging stakeholders and framing collaborations with them was a journey for us. The most important and relevant stakeholders to include seems like the BIPOC low income youth and adults that we intended to serve with our educational programming. Through constant networking and pitching, we had the opportunity to pilot a social entrepreneurship program at a school in the South Bronx, where I personally saw and tracked the impact that our program had on local students. The pilot, and the testing of our gamified learning platform, was a success, but our fledgling nonprofit needed to secure funding and other strategic partners that would help us expand our work and fulfill our vision of scalable impact.I networked with representatives of corporations that could donate funds and offer employment opportunities to our beneficiaries, as well as try to reach out to elected representatives that might be supportive of our educational programming in their districts. I also continued to network with schools and other youth-serving nonprofits to try to acquire new clients and sources of revenue. It was often challenging to structure and realize cross-sectoral collaborations, but eventually - by learning more about the systems and stakeholders - we were able to secure more collaborations with schools and nonprofits that were sometimes funded by corporate sponsors or philanthropic grants. The main source of funding came from clients (that understood the impact that our programming had on the children that they served. To scale our organization and impact in the future, I know that I have to make greater inroads among government partners and corporate sponsors and I am working on this every day.—As a social innovator, I believe that to create systemic change, we must inevitably work across sectors, and particularly engage the public sector as policy makers, and the corporate sector as employers, to make a sustainable impact on the long term economic prosperity of the low income people that we serve. When launching Cambio Labs as a nonprofit, these collaborative goals were largely theoretical and aspirational, but I wasn’t sure how to position ourselves or by what methods to engage cross-sectoral stakeholders to expand our programming and amplify our impact.