Mission Statement and Organizational HistoryCambio Labs is a nonprofit that empowers underestimated youth and young adults by providing access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities, and the building blocks to create generational wealth for themselves and their communities. We design and deliver transformative educational programs, technology, and cross-sectoral partnerships that equip program participants with the skills and networks to become founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions.Cambio Labs started operations in 2021, when social entrepreneur and educator Sebastián Martín observed the absence of social entrepreneurship training where it is most needed: in underfunded school districts and economically depressed communities where creative youth dream of bringing economic empowerment for themselves and their families.  Sebastián and our team created Cambio Labs to address the disparities of access to work and project-based educational experiences that have the power to transform the lives of marginalized youth. To make our programming scalable and more accessible, we developed Journey, a gamified online learning platform to compliment hands-on learning. Paired with our Social Entrepreneurship curriculum, students complete projects and team-based challenges to earn rewards that include connecting with volunteer experts and mentors in the fields of tech, finance, sustainability, entrepreneurship, and more. Our programs promote durable skills that will expand participants’ employability and career pathways, social capital, and entrepreneurial skills. To date, Cambio Labs has partnered with social impact leaders and organizational partners across the corporate, nonprofit, and educational sectors to deliver innovative social entrepreneurship programming to 237 low-income youth across New York City. 80% of our students were paid internship stipends, through partnerships with organizations such as Good Shepherd Services, Comp Sci High, and the Department of Youth and Community Development’s (DYCD’s) Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP).  Population Organization ServesOur target beneficiaries consist of low-income BIPOC adolescents (aged 13-18) and underemployed adults (primarily between the ages of 18-25) seeking upskilling programs and career placement opportunities.Our comprehensive programs are designed around the unique needs of middle school, high school, and young adult participants, with an emphasis on cultivating their social and green entrepreneurship skills, enhancing their career potential, and fostering a strong foundation to become agents of change in their communities. 95% of our participants are BIPOC, with 80% identifying as coming from low-income backgrounds. While our participants come from across New York City’s most marginalized communities, our focal communities include the South Bronx and residents of NYC public housing (NYCHA) in Red Hook, Brooklyn.We design programs to bring about immediate enhancements in income and employment opportunities for underemployed young adults through our green workforce development program. In Red Hook, where our solar workforce development program first took root, coastal communities were ravaged by the effects of Hurricane Sandy and continue to be vulnerable to environmental pollution and climate disaster. Per NYC OpenData Portal, this neighborhood experiences poverty and unemployment rate above New York City's average, and is typical of the communities we serve. Opportunities for underemployed young adults to learn new skills while earning a living wage are limited. They need opportunities to gain certifications, not just to boost their employability in burgeoning sectors like solar power, but also to bring down energy costs and climate vulnerability within their own neighborhoods, making their communities more sustainable and more resilient.Similarly, in the South Bronx, where we deliver social entrepreneurship programming to high school students that face significant barriers to academic success and economic mobility in the borough with the highest poverty rates in New York City. Students scored lower in English Language Arts, and Mathematics and had less access to advanced coursework, such as Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) classes, compared to students in other boroughs, which adversely affects their preparation for university and employment. Our aim is to provide opportunities for students to design and pitch social projects that improve their local communities, and develop networks and durable skills that will help them stand out to potential employers and investors after graduating.Needs the Organization AddressesCambio Labs was created as a response to inequities that impact low income youth across New York City. Each year, 1.2 million high school students in the US drop out, and 1 in 3 BIPOC students attend “dropout factories,” schools with graduation rates below 60%. Our education systems often fall short in teaching the durable skills necessary for youth to succeed in the job market; competencies like problem-solving, leadership, communication, critical thinking, teamwork, adaptability, and creativity. These experiences are all too familiar for youth who live in the South Bronx, where schools and entrenched inequities have created some of the lowest graduation rates in the city and the lowest percentage of college readiness- according to the Citizens’ Committee for Children, with only 36% of students in NYC School District 8 considered college ready. The students that we serve, in partnership with charter school Comp Sci High, reside in the 15th Congressional District - currently the poorest in the nation with 36.2% of residents living below the poverty line.Vulnerable communities are already disproportionately affected by recessions, particularly in terms of employment. In New York City, unemployment rates in public housing developments are three times higher than the citywide average, and the rate of business creation in lower-income areas significantly lags behind the rest of the city. Our focal community of the South Bronx is home to the highest number of families living below the poverty line, and is near the top of the list for unemployment. Cambio Labs strives to address inequities entrenched in our education and social systems by empowering youth from underserved communities with durable, marketable skills through a cutting-edge, community-driven curriculum; project-based learning that focuses on social responsibility; and opportunities to connect with trusted mentors in the fields of tech, finance, sustainability, entrepreneurship, and more.  Designed by social entrepreneurs, educators, and youth, and in partnership with community-based organizations, our program adapts to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our young entrepreneurs are prepared to excel in their future careers.Our ApproachCambio Labs is committed to addressing the deep-rooted inequities present in our education and social systems. We achieve this by empowering youth from underserved communities with durable, marketable skills through a cutting-edge, community-driven curriculum that uses project-based learning that focuses on social responsibility, and by providing opportunities to connect with trusted mentors in the field. Designed by social entrepreneurs and educators in partnership with community-based organizations, our program adapts to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our young entrepreneurs are prepared to excel in their future careers.Our commitment to innovation is exemplified in our teaching methods. Leveraging technology, we offer flexible and responsive learning solutions, ranging from hybrid to fully remote options, gamified and student-designed techniques to captivate our students, and a focus on project-based learning.Through paid, project-based learning, we strive to cultivate confident, innovative leaders who can work as a team to create meaningful change within their communities. Our participants not only gain valuable experience but also develop a deep sense of social responsibility and business acumen that has the potential to transform their own neighborhoods. With our comprehensive program, entrepreneurs develop diverse portfolios of projects, master the art of pitching their ventures, and establish vital industry connections. At Cambio Labs, we champion a new generation of entrepreneurs who prioritize and uplift their neighborhoods, revolutionizing the entrepreneurship landscape in low income communities.Cambio Labs aims to foster a thriving ecosystem for budding social entrepreneurs. By bridging the gap between underserved youth and tech and entrepreneurship spaces, we empower the next generation of changemakers with the networks, expertise and mentorship to thrive in today's economy.  We also facilitate connections to introduce our entrepreneurs into a talent pipeline that can make workplaces more diverse and inclusive.Our ImpactIn our inaugural year, Cambio Labs created meaningful connections and responded directly to community needs by partnering with Prep for Prep, an NYC-based nonprofit that champions educational opportunities for young leaders of color. Together, we were able to deliver our first social entrepreneurship program for 30 high school students living in public housing in Chelsea, Manhattan.To further our impact, we engaged high school students in the creation of Journey, a gamified learning platform housing our multimedia curriculum, project-based challenges, and a point system that rewards users with invaluable resources, such as mentorship, career development opportunities, professional coaching, workshops, and small business development services. In 2022, Journey was piloted alongside our flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program at Urban Assembly Charter School of Computer Science (Comp Sci High) in the South Bronx. By coalescing around a shared goal to provide Bronx students with the skills and experiences needed to succeed beyond high school, Cambio Labs was able to graduate 16 youth from our pilot  program.In the summer of 2022, we built upon our successes with youth and in community as we were invited to apply for five additional program cohorts in partnership with various organizations, including NYC nonprofits, New York City Summer Youth Employment Program (NYC SYEP) worksites, Comp Sci High, and the Mayor's Office of San Francisco. This growth allowed us to serve over 115 students, predominantly students of color from low-income backgrounds, up from just 16 during the school year.The impact of our programs has been overwhelmingly positive, as evidenced by encouraging survey and interview data from both students and instructors, and repeated requests for our curriculum. Our 2022 summer partners have enthusiastically committed to continued collaboration with Cambio Labs in 2023.So far, we've reached approximately 200 adolescents and young adults from underserved communities. Among them, 70% secured paid work-based learning opportunities. Every participant in our green workforce development program earned The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)  and Urban Green Council Certifications. Additionally, all participants achieved Social Entrepreneurship Certificates and were connected with a professional mentor in sustainability, technology, or innovation.ProposalCambio Labs is requesting support for its Social Entrepreneurship Program. A partnership with the Pinkerton Foundation would allow Cambio Labs to meet the growing requests for our services that empower underestimated youth to create social and environmental changes in their community, while equipping them with hands-on entrepreneurship education and developing marketable durable skills and networks.  By providing access to lessons, videos, project-based challenges, and professional services on the Journey platform, Cambio Labs can sustain its mission to equip marginalized youth with essential tools for success.Intended PurposeSocial Entrepreneurship Program:Cambio Labs aims to support youth and young adults at an integral moment in their lives by providing Social Entrepreneurship and linkages to trusted mentors to marginalized youth in New York City, including our focal community of the South Bronx and with youth residing in public housing. Our target audience are BIPOC adolescents and young adults between the ages of 14-24.During Cambio Labs’ eight-week Social Entrepreneurship Program (SEP), groups of student entrepreneurs work on teams to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Enrolled students and program facilitators will receive accounts for Journey, Cambio Labs’ online learning platform containing lessons, videos, prompts and project-based challenges, teacher tools for facilitation and assessment, and gamified rewards and professional services that students can earn as they learn on our platform. Click here to learn more about the Journey platform.Students identify hyper-local social and environmental issues, build teams, interact with real potential customers and local community members, conduct research, create real prototypes and websites, test their products with real users, develop a business model, and pitch to a panel of judges for prizes. Our SEP course is an intensive and immersive experience where students will go through a real world entrepreneurial process. This fully hands-on and practical learning experience leverages the best practices of student-centered, project based, and work based learning. Throughout the program, student teams will also be connected to Cambio Coaches that act as professional mentors as students develop their early stage companies.Program Outcomes: Through our partnership with schools and afterschool programs in the coming year, at least 162 youth will graduate from our program, having developed 21st century competencies like creative problem-solving, communication, collaboration, resilience, and community service. Completion of the program and presentation of projects will also exemplify that students will have developed entrepreneurial and designer mindset, business management skills, financial literacy, soft skills, social capital, empathy, and a sense of purpose through practice. Lastly, all students will be linked with at least one trusted and culturally competent mentor to guide their entrepreneurial growth through the program and beyond.Measurement & Tracking: Throughout the program, and with the assistance of schools and other partner organizations, students will be surveyed to measure the development of their innovation abilities, academic performance, and preparedness for college and the workforce. Data will be regularly tracked and reported by the Cambio Labs team in order to adjust programming and planning that can meet the needs of our participants.Planned Activities, Curriculum Summary:Checkpoint / UnitContentMode of InstructionWeek 1: InitiationOrientation, Introduction to Entrepreneurship & Social InnovationIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 2: Startup Team ChallengeStartup Team Formation, Social Innovation Challenge & PitchingIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 3: Design ThinkingDesign Thinking Introduction, Problem & Stakeholder Analysis, Empathy Research, Field Work Preparation In-person facilitation with platformWeek 4: Field WorkIn-field: Community Engagement & Empathy Research with Local Community PartnersIn-person facilitation with platform + Community EngagementWeek 5: Solution IdeationParticipatory Design: Brainstorming & Solution Ideation Process in partnership with local community partnerIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 6: Business ModelBusiness Model Creation, Revenue & Cost Structures, Impact Model Creation, Final Pitch IntroductionIn-person facilitation with platformWeek 7: Final Pitch PrepCommunity Member Feedback, Sustainability Plans, Prepping for Final Pitches In-person facilitation with platformWeek 8: Social Venture Pitches & AwardsFinal Public Pitch with community, school, and political stakeholders. Awards ceremony; grants to sponsor ongoing community projects & social venturesIn-person facilitation with Cambio Labs team & student teams + Community EngagementWe are grateful for the opportunity to partner with the Pinkerton Foundation through our shared vision of supporting low-income youth to reach their full potential at a pivotal moment in their lives. A grant from the Foundation would be catalytic during these formative years of Cambio Labs, and would allow us to sustainably respond to the growing needs and demand of our communities. Thank you for your consideration and all that you do for youth in New York City.