1. Mission and Organizational HistoryCambio Labs is a nonprofit that empowers underestimated youth and adults by providing access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities, and the foundations to create generational wealth for themselves and their community. We design and deliver transformative educational programs, technology, and meaningful partnerships that equip program participants with the skills and networks to become founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions.Cambio Labs emerged in 2021, when social entrepreneur and business teacher Sebastián Martín observed the absence of social entrepreneurship training where it is most needed; among some of the most creative youth in the housing projects in Chelsea, one of the most gentrified yet stratified neighborhoods in New York City.  Sebastian and his team created Cambio Labs to address the disparities of educational experiences that have the power to transform the lives of marginalized youth like those Chelsea students. Since then, Cambio Labs has partnered with hundreds of social impact leaders in the community to deliver innovative social entrepreneurship programs to approximately 200 underserved youth in its first year.  Our ApproachCambio Labs is dedicated to responding to these inequities entrenched in our education and social systems by empowering youth from underserved communities and equipping them with durable, marketable skills through- a cutting-edge, community-driven curriculum; project-based learning that focuses on social responsibility; and opportunities to connect with trusted mentors in the field. Designed by social entrepreneurs and educators in partnership with community-based organizations, our program adapts to the rapidly evolving job market, ensuring our young entrepreneurs are prepared to excel in their future careers.Our commitment to innovation extends to our teaching methods. Leveraging technology, we offer flexible and responsive learning solutions, ranging from hybrid to fully remote options, incorporating gamified and engaging techniques to captivate our students, and focusing on project-based learning.Through paid, project-based learning, we strive to cultivate confident, innovative leaders who can work as a team to create meaningful change within their communities. Our participants not only gain valuable experience but also develop a deep sense of social responsibility and business acumen that has the potential to transform their own neighborhoods. With our comprehensive program, entrepreneurs develop diverse portfolios of projects, master the art of pitching their ventures, and establish vital industry connections. At Cambio Labs, we champion a new generation of entrepreneurs who prioritize and uplift their communities, revolutionizing the entrepreneurship landscape.Cambio Labs aims to foster a thriving ecosystem for budding social entrepreneurs. By bridging the gap between underserved youth and tech and entrepreneurship spaces, we empower the next generation of changemakers with the networks, expertise and mentorship to thrive in today's economy.  We also facilitate connections to introduce our entrepreneurs into a talent pipeline that can make workplaces more diverse and inclusive.1. Needs StatementEach year, 1.2 million high school students in the US drop out, and 1 in 3 BIPOC students attend “dropout factories,” schools with graduation rates below 60%. Our education systems often fall short in teaching the durable skills necessary for youth to succeed in the job market, such as problem-solving, leadership, communication, critical thinking, teamwork, adaptability, and creativity. These experiences are all too familiar for youth who live in the South Bronx, where schools and entrenched inequities have created some of the lowest graduation rates in the city and the lowest percentage of college readiness- according to the Citizens’ Committee for Children, with only 36% of students in NYC School District 8 considered college ready.Moreover, research shows that Black and Latinx children face greater barriers to upward income mobility than their white peers (2018, Raj Chetty, Stanford University and NBER; Nathaniel Hendren, Harvard University and NBER; Maggie R. Jones, U.S. Census Bureau; Sonya R. Porter, U.S. Census Bureau) Part of this racial income gap can be explained by the intergenerational transmission of economic status. Black children born to low-income parents are more likely to remain in the bottom income quintile as adults, compared to their white counterparts. Conversely, white children born to high-income parents are more likely to remain in the top income quintile. Although higher education reduces racial income disparities, black men still earn less than white men with similar education levels. The study suggests that factors beyond education, such as systemic discrimination and exclusionary social networks, may be contributing to the racial income gap.Vulnerable communities are already disproportionately affected by recessions, particularly in terms of employment. In New York City, unemployment rates in public housing developments are three times higher than the citywide average, and the rate of business creation in lower-income areas significantly lags behind the rest of the city. Our focal community of the South Bronx is home to the highest number of families living below the poverty line, and is near the top of the list for unemployment.1. Current Programs & Accomplishments In our inaugural year, Cambio Labs created meaningful connections and responded directly to community needs by partnering with Prep for Prep, an NYC-based nonprofit that champions educational opportunities for young leaders of color. Together, we were able to deliver our first social entrepreneurship program for 30 high school students in Chelsea, Manhattan.To further our impact, we engaged high school students in the creation of Journey, a gamified learning platform housing our multimedia curriculum, project-based challenges, and a point system that rewards users with invaluable resources, such as mentorship, career development opportunities, professional coaching, workshops, and small business development services. In 2022, Journey was piloted alongside our flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program at Urban Assembly Charter School of Computer Science (Comp Sci High) in the South Bronx. By coalescing around a shared goal to provide Bronx students with the skills and experiences needed to succeed, Cambio Labs was able to graduate16 youth from our pilot  program.In the summer of 2022, we built upon our successes with youth and in community as we were invited to apply for five additional program cohorts in partnership with various organizations, including NYC nonprofits, New York City Summer Youth Employment Program (NYC SYEP) worksites, Comp Sci High, and the Mayor's Office of San Francisco. This growth allowed us to serve over 115 students, predominantly students of color from low-income backgrounds, up from just 15 during the school year.The impact of our programs has been overwhelmingly positive, as evidenced by encouraging survey and interview data from both students and instructors, and repeated requests for our curriculum. Our 2022 summer partners have enthusiastically committed to continued collaboration with Cambio Labs in 2023.So far, we've reached approximately 200 adolescents and young adults from underserved communities. Among them, 70% secured paid work-based learning opportunities. Every participant in our green workforce development program earned The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)  and Urban Green Council Certifications. Additionally, all participants achieved Social Entrepreneurship Certificates and were connected with a professional mentor in sustainability, technology, or innovation.1. Our TeamCurrently, we have two full time contractors; Sebastian Martin and Michelle Maluwetig.Sebastian Martin is the CEO and Michelle Maluwetig directs organizational development and communications for the organization.  Steffen Ummelmann is a part-time contractor who directs technology and compliance, and oversees a part-time full-stack software engineer. We currently work with 25 volunteer coaches for program support, and we have engaged the work of 12 volunteers to support organizational development in 2022 for communications, evaluation, and development support.1. Our PartnersOur community based partners are our clients and our co-designers. Below you will find a breakdown of our collaborations, and a brief description of their areas of focus and specialization. Comp Sci High is an innovative public charter school focused on computer science and empowering students from underrepresented backgrounds with essential skills for the digital age. Prep for Prep is a leadership development program that identifies and nurtures academically talented students of color, preparing them for placement in top independent schools and colleges. Good Shepherd Services is a social service and youth development agency that offers a range of programs to support vulnerable children and families in New York City, emphasizing education, family support, and community-building. BrooklynSolar is a forward-thinking company dedicated to increasing the adoption of solar energy through cost-effective installations and community-driven initiatives in Brooklyn and surrounding areas. The RETI Center (Resilient, Energy, Technology, Infrastructure) is a nonprofit organization that works to promote sustainable and resilient urban infrastructure by providing resources, education, and collaboration opportunities to communities and professionals. Upperline Code is an educational organization that teaches coding and computer science to high school students, particularly from underserved communities, empowering them with skills and opportunities to pursue careers in technology.Intended PurposeSocial Entrepreneurship Program:Cambio Labs aims to support youth and young adults at an integral moment in their lives by providing Social Entrepreneurship and linkages to trusted mentors to marginalized youth in New York City, including our focal community of the South Bronx and with youth residing in public housing. Our target audience are BIPOC school-attending youth and young adults between the ages of 16-24.During Cambio Labs’ Social Entrepreneurship Program, groups of student entrepreneurs work on teams to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Over eight weeks, enrolled students and program facilitators will receive accounts for Journey, Cambio Labs’ online learning platform containing lessons, videos, prompts and project-based challenges, teacher tools for facilitation and assessment, and gamified rewards and professional services that students can earn as they learn on our platform. Click here to learn more about the Journey platform.Students identify social and environmental issues, build teams, interact with real potential customers and local community members, conduct research, create real prototypes and websites, test their products with real users, develop a business model, and pitch to a panel of judges for prizes. The course is an intensive and immersive experience where students will go through a real world entrepreneurial process. This fully hands-on and practical learning experience leverages the best practices of student-centered, project based, and work based learning. Throughout the program, student teams will also be connected to Cambio Coaches that act as professional mentors as students develop their early stage companies.Program Outcomes: Through our partnership with schools and afterschool programs in the coming year, at least 162 youth will graduate from our program, having developed 21st century competencies like creative problem-solving, communication, collaboration, resilience, and community service. Completion of the program and presentation of projects will also exemplify that students will have developed entrepreneurial and designer mindset, business management skills, financial literacy, soft skills, social capital, empathy, and a sense of purpose through practice. Lastly, all students will be linked with at least one trusted and culturally competent mentor to guide their entrepreneurial growth through the program and beyond.Measurement & Tracking: Throughout the program, and in partnership with schools and other partner organizations, students will be surveyed to measure the development of their innovation abilities, academic performance, and preparedness for college and the workforce. Data will be regularly tracked and reported by the Cambio Labs team.