Tell us about your Audacious idea and how your specific insight and / or approach would have a significant and enduring impact. (250-word limit)Our nonprofit, Cambio Labs, partners with schools, nonprofits, and corporations to build pathways for underestimated BIPOC youth and adults to engage in social entrepreneurship education, mentorship and training, and opportunities for business development, investment, and employment. Since launching in 2021, we have served over 380 innovators and learners, delivering 23 individual programs. Entrepreneurs in our cohorts identify pressing issues in their communities and collaboratively develop ventures to address them. Through our gamified learning platform, Journey, participants can access multimedia curriculum, acquire “Gemstones” by completing challenges, and earn real-world rewards. Since 2021, Cambio Labs has delivered its flagship Social Entrepreneurship Program to various schools, youth-serving nonprofits, and government initiatives. We have also partnered to deliver Local Power, a Solar Training program that serves our most economically and environmentally vulnerable communities in Red Hook, Brooklyn.Cambio Labs’ roadmap for the next few years is to continue expanding our educational programs and technology to serve thousands of low income people in NYC and beyond. Part of this vision includes the launch of Startup NYCHA, an initiative to empower NYC’s most underinvested, underserved, and untapped entrepreneurs living in public housing. We are currently launching our 5-month pilot program, where NYCHA residents entrepreneurs from across the city will engage in weekly business accelerator programming along with ongoing mentorship and business development support. Our long term goal is to radically improve access to NYC’s innovation ecosystem and green employment by leveraging cross-sectoral resources, educational technology, and proximate community-run programming.In what way(s) is your idea or approach innovative, novel, or original? (150-word limit)Innovative and originalThere should be a unique aspect or creative element to your approach that challenges convention or status quo or changes the narrative for the greater good.Cambio Labs’ approach integrates educational technology with a focus on social entrepreneurship for BIPOC youth and adults, a group often marginalized in traditional educational settings and in community decision making. Our innovative use of a gamified online platform, Journey, distinctively enhances engagement and learning. Another unique and successful strategy has been to build cross sectoral partnerships.For example, for the Solar Training Program that we delivered in partnership with nonprofit, the RETI center, corporate sponsor Amazon financed the development of our gamified learning platform, Journey, to create a learning management system and virtual solar training program;  local school, the Red Hook Neighborhood School, hosted our training program; local nonprofit Good Shepherd Services to provided internship stipends and wrap around social services to our participants. Through the solar training program we served predominantly low income people of color that were residents of Red Hook Houses.How does equity play a role in your idea, organization, and/or leadership? (150 words)Equity is central to Cambio Labs' mission, empowering BIPOC low income people through access to social entrepreneurship skills and technology. Our curriculum and theory of change is designed to level the playing field for underserved innovators.We are building an equitable innovation infrastructure - publicly accessible resources, programming, and technology that can create access to entrepreneurship, business development opportunities, and employment pathways for all.By focusing on the needs of students and entrepreneurs of color, we address historic and systemic inequities by making educational and entrepreneurial opportunities accessible to our most underserved communities. Our leadership reflects this commitment to equity, actively recruiting BIPOC coaches and ensuring our content highlights entrepreneurs of color. The majority of our social entrepreneurship and green workforce programs are also paid opportunities for youth and adult participants, addressing financial barriers for entrepreneurship, and working class families that need to choose between professional development and paid work opportunities.What are the major steps you will need to take to achieve this idea and why is right now the best time to pursue it? (150 words)Firstly, advancing the Journey platform's capabilities will enable personalized learning experiences. This means providing insights for partners, instructors, and participants on skills development, including the ability to leverage artificial intelligence to build reports and portfolios for students to showcase their ventures.  Secondly, we want to enhance our platforms’ adaptability to support educators and social impact organizations' ability to ensure their curriculum reflects the needs, strengths, and opportunities for their communities.Thirdly, continuously updating our curriculum and platform to include cutting-edge content ensures relevance and effectiveness is essential, and this also means making a dent in the digital divide by teaching marginalized communities how to leverage artificial intelligence for social impact and maximizing the impact of entrepreneurs with limited resources.How does equity play a role in your idea, organization, and/or leadership? (150 words)Equity is central to Cambio Labs' mission, empowering BIPOC low income people through access to social entrepreneurship skills and technology. Our curriculum and theory of change is designed to level the playing field for underserved innovators.We are building an equitable innovation infrastructure - publicly accessible resources, programming, and technology that can create access to entrepreneurship, business development opportunities, and employment pathways for all.By focusing on the needs of students and entrepreneurs of color, we address historic and systemic inequities by making educational and entrepreneurial opportunities accessible to our most underserved communities. Our leadership reflects this commitment to equity, actively recruiting BIPOC coaches and ensuring our content highlights entrepreneurs of color. The majority of our social entrepreneurship and green workforce programs are also paid opportunities for youth and adult participants, addressing financial barriers for entrepreneurship, and working class families that need to choose between professional development and paid work opportunities.What are the major steps you will need to take to achieve this idea and why is right now the best time to pursue it? (150 words)Firstly, advancing the Journey platform's capabilities will enable personalized learning experiences. This means providing insights for partners, instructors, and participants on skills development, including the ability to leverage artificial intelligence to build reports and portfolios for students to showcase their ventures.  Secondly, we want to enhance our platforms’ adaptability to support educators and social impact organizations' ability to ensure their curriculum reflects the needs, strengths, and opportunities for their communities.Thirdly, continuously updating our curriculum and platform to include cutting-edge content ensures relevance and effectiveness is essential, and this also means making a dent in the digital divide by teaching marginalized communities how to leverage artificial intelligence for social impact and maximizing the impact of entrepreneurs with limited resources.  Why now? Because innovation is needed urgently to confront myriad crises and complex social challenges. We are on a mission to address some of our world’s most urgent problems: an inequitable school and wealth creation system, and climate change which disproportionately affects communities inequitably.