Problem* What pain point does your customer face? How is it being addressed today, and where do current solutions fall short. (Please keep it to 4 sentences.)Cambio Labs addresses the pain point of limited access to social entrepreneurship and workforce development education for BIPOC and marginalized communities. Current solutions are often inaccessible, costly, and lack the tailored support needed for these groups to succeed in high-demand fields. While some platforms offer general entrepreneurial resources, they fall short by not addressing unique barriers such as systemic exclusion from investment opportunities and advanced tech skills training??.Solution* What was your breakthrough moment? What makes your value proposition (secret sauce) unique and compelling, and why will it last? (Please limit to 4 sentences.)This summer marked a breakthrough for Journey, our gamified learning platform, as we reached 500 users and recognized its capacity to host diverse curriculum aimed at social and environmental change. Journey leverages "Sparky," our AI-driven personalization bot, to blend accessible, self-paced courses with interactive learning, thereby enhancing engagement with educational organizations and democratizing access to high-quality educational content. This success lays the groundwork for standardizing learning processes and scaling up to serve larger networks. Ultimately, this fits with our larger vision for Journey to become the technological foundation for widespread innovation infrastructure.  Business Model*How do you plan to generate revenue? Who are your paying customers, and how much will they be charged for your product or service?Cambio Labs generates revenue primarily through earned income from licensing its educational technology and curriculum to NYC public schools, nonprofits, and workforce agencies.  We charge $20-25,000 for our 12-20 week social entrepreneurship incubator, including in-person instruction and use of our platform. We are piloting a subscription model for our Platform as a Service (PaaS), wherein organizations can use our Journey platform as a customizable learning management system (LMS) to deliver their programs. Our PaaS varies in pricing from 500 per month for small BIPOC nonprofits, to $5,000/month for larger entities, in addition to a one-time implementation fee. Market* What's the total number of potential customers for your product in the US? (Also known as your Total Addressable Market or TAM.)Cambio Labs’ Total Addressable Market (TAM) in the U.S. includes key educational and economic support sectors. With approximately 97,568 public schools, 17,000 workforce development organizations, and over 1.5 million nonprofits focused on areas like social entrepreneurship, workforce and community development, these segments align closely with Cambio’s offerings. Additionally, about 1,400 business incubators, 4,000 chambers of commerce, and 1,200 Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) further expand the market. Cambio can also reach an estimated 1,300 technical assistance providers, including SBDCs, WBCs, and MBDCs, all focused on fostering business growth and supporting underserved communities.Geographic Market* Where are your customers? (what cities or regions do you currently serve and how will that change in the next two years)Currently, Cambio Labs primarily serves communities in New York City, where initiatives like Startup NYCHA, Cambio Solar, and our flagship Social Entrepreneurship Incubator programs are in place.  We have served over 500 learners through our platform and curriculum in these areas. Over the next two years, we plan to expand our reach to other major urban centers, including San Francisco, where we have already piloted programs, as well as additional cities where underserved populations have high demand for entrepreneurial and technical skill development??. With our PaaS model expanding, we have clients in Spain, India, and plan to expand our presence to the Philippines. We project in 2025 we will be able to serve over 3000 learners through our new PaaS contracts and through our signature delivery of social business incubators throughout NY.Go to Market*How do you plan to reach and acquire your customers?Cambio Labs plans to reach and acquire customers through a dual approach: expanding partnerships with educational institutions, workforce development organizations, and public libraries and community centers, while also enhancing our platform andPaaS offering to attract larger network clients. This PaaS strategy enables Cambio to offer scalable, customizable learning solutions that integrate seamlessly into the training programs of larger clients, increasing the platform’s appeal for broader, impact-driven initiatives. Outbound marketing, targeted advertising, and digital outreach will amplify this effort, drawing attention to Cambio’s unique capability to convert static curricula into interactive, gamified, data-rich learning experiences. By leveraging our Journey platform and digital client-tracking system (Attio CRM), we are positioned to both deepen existing partnerships and attract new high-impact clients looking for accessible, skills-based learning solutions????.Competitors*Who are your competitors, and what sets you apart (your competitive edge)?Our competitors include traditional edtech platforms (Learning Management Systems) and nonprofit upskilling programs. However, Cambio Labs sets itself apart through its exclusive focus on BIPOC and low-income communities, its digital gamified learning experience, and the AI-driven personalization provided by our Sparky bot. This combination of tailored support, affordability, and technological innovation provides a unique competitive edge that meets underserved communities’ specific needs??.How do you plan to leverage our Design Insight Group (DIG) to support your product development? (Please visit DIG for more information: https://www.joindig.org)We plan to collaborate with the Design Insight Group (DIG) to deeply involve our users in the ongoing refinement of our platform, Journey. Through co-design sessions and feedback loops, DIG will help us tailor features like Sparky, our AI-driven educational assistant, to ensure our solutions are designed to meet the needs and level of experience of low-income users who have varied levels of digital experience. We have benefited from each cohort by learning how our design can be more intuitive by seeing how they engage with different curricula on our platform. DIG’s input would help us ensure that our platform design remains accessible, responsive, and culturally relevant.Low-Income Focus* How do you believe your product will make a positive impact on the lives of low-income communities?Cambio Labs’ platform, Journey, is designed to empower low-income communities by delivering accessible, skills-based training that directly supports economic mobility. By focusing on high-growth, high-paying industries, such as green technology and software development, our programs prepare participants for sustainable careers. For instance, our solar workforce training initiative equips learners with job-ready skills in renewable energy, a rapidly expanding sector with a critical demand for qualified workers. Similarly, Cambio Coding provides participants with foundational and advanced coding skills, opening pathways to in-demand careers in technology. All programs also enhance digital literacy, a key competency for thriving in today’s economy, ensuring that participants gain both technical expertise and confidence in navigating the digital landscape.By moving towards self-paced learning modules, real-time feedback, and stackable certifications ensure inclusivity and flexibility for individuals juggling work, family, or other challenges. Beyond technical training, participants receive mentorship, career guidance, and connections to industry employers, ensuring a smooth transition into the workforce. By equipping learners with essential skills and tools, Cambio Labs enables low-income individuals to break cycles of poverty, achieve economic mobility, and contribute to industries that are shaping the future. Through this holistic approach, we are fostering long-term stability, equity, and empowerment for marginalized communities.Catalyst Fit* Why do you believe Robin Hood and the Catalyst program are a great fit for your venture, beyond the funding we offer?Cambio Labs is well-aligned with the Robin Hood Catalyst program, which goes beyond funding by offering strategic support to initiatives that address systemic poverty. Our programs are designed with similar values in mind, aiming to create sustainable economic pathways for communities that face systemic barriers. With Robin Hood’s support, we could expand initiatives like Startup NYCHA, which brings entrepreneurship training directly to New York’s public housing residents, and further invest in our platform to expand functionality and accessibility from mobile devices and to partner directly with other community centers like public libraries. Robin Hood and Blue Ridge Lab’s expertise, network, and commitment to economic justice makes them valuable partners in scaling these programs and in helping us address the root causes of economic disparity across New York’s underserved communities.