 The age range of young people served by your organization (check all that apply)12-17 years old18-24 years old How representative are your staff, volunteers, and board of the community you serve? Our full time core staff and our instructors are all people of color, and our board is majority Latinx. Frequency of Service that each participant receives: Twice weekly in-person Youth Programming Categories (pick no more than three categories)Tech/ STEMWorkforce/ Career ReadinessCivic Education2M. # of participants served annually by your organization: 2502N. What is the racial/ethnic breakdown of the population your organization serves by percentage? 95% self identify as BIPOC2O. What percentage of the young people you serve identify as female vs. male vs. non-binary?48% identify as female; 49% male; 3% nonbinary 2Q. When does your program operate? (Check all that apply)After-SchoolDuring SchoolSummerMission, History, & ProgramsYour organization's mission (25 words or less)Cambio Labs is a nonprofit organization that provides educational technology and curricular programs to transform participants into founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Your organization's history (150 words or less)Cambio Labs was established in 2021 by Sebastián Martín, a social entrepreneur and educator, in response to educational and employment inequities faced by low-income BIPOC youth in New York City.  Recognizing the urgent need for financial, digital,  and self-advocacy training among the city's most creative yet underserved youth, Sebastián and 2 coders in high school launched the first version of the Journey Platform, introducing essential social entrepreneurship training on a gamified online learning platform they designed. The platform has been piloted across 22 hybrid programs now, now also supports a “Train the Trainer” and green workforce development programs in solar panel installation and EV infrastructure. With its first expansion into the NY Public Schools in 2024 and programs in the Bronx, Brooklyn, and Manhattan, Cambio Labs has equipped over 380 individuals with vital skills in social, environmental innovation, and digital financial literacy.What is the problem your organization seeks to address and how do your programs provide a solution? (250 words or less)Cambio Labs is dedicated to bridging the education and opportunity gaps that disproportionately affect low-income youth in New York City. The majority of durable skills that employers are hiring for—such as leadership, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity—are not adequately developed in most recent high school graduates, with employers reporting that less than 25% of recent graduates are qualified for entry level roles.  We see this system failure especially for our students of color,  with 1 in 3 BIPOC students nationally attending schools known as dropout factories, with graduation rates below 60%.  The students we serve live in the South Bronx, located in the nation's poorest Congressional Districts. Our work focuses on rectifying the underrepresentation of Black and Latinx youth in apprenticeships and work-based learning opportunities, which are critical for securing higher-paying jobs. By focusing on bridging these gaps, Cambio Labs aims to level the playing field and empower this underserved demographic with the necessary tools and knowledge to thrive in the modern economy.  Notably, the National Skills Coalition reports that 92% of U.S. jobs in 2023 require digital skills, with digitally skilled workers earning 23% more. Our programs incorporate current labor market demands, recognizing that workers with digital skills can earn significantly more, and aim to rectify the underrepresentation of BIPOC individuals in the entrepreneurial workforce, which is less than 30%.  Our solution is in our innovative and culturally-competent business programs delivered with the Journey Platform, a gamified learning management system designed to engage and educate. Our curriculum is specifically tailored to equip participants with the skills to leverage technology for designing and launching impactful businesses that address community issues. Through hands-on experience, culturally competent mentorship, and a focus on social innovation, we not only aim to improve individual skill sets but also to foster a generation of leaders capable of driving positive change in their communities and beyond.Please include a synopsis of your current programs and accomplishments - i.e. what do you do and what are you most proud of? (250 words or less)We are excited to have engaged new partners such as the Brooklyn STEAM Center, Big Picture Learning, and the Lab School who are part of a broader ecosystem of education changemakers.  Aside from our contract with Opportunities for All with the San Francisco’s Mayor office, we have found a local partner to continue our train-the trainer program.  We also have been accepted to the Social Justice Accelerator, the Coro Fellowship, DataKind’s GenAI Learning Circles and Public Policy Lab, an accelerator for more inclusive STEM-based entrepreneurship– and we’re just thrilled to be part of a community of thought leaders who seek to use technology for social impact and creating systemic change in our education system.Internally, we are very proud to grow from a two-person to a three-person team by adding an incredibly dedicated product manager.   Programmatically, we are garnering political support for bringing our programming to NYCHA to unlock the entrepreneurial power of residents.  Our pilot is launching at the Fulton Houses and our hope is for this to ignite a city-wide movement.  In line with this program growth, we are deepening our work in green workforce development for adults and have attained a multiyear partnership and grant from Con Edison to deliver EV infrastructure and solar panel installation through our platform.   SparkYouth NYC places special emphasis on the educational & life-skills development components of the organizations and young people it seeks to support.  If not already covered above, please be specific in indicating how your program enhances the educational and/or life-skills of your participants to give them improved tools as they enter adulthood? (150 words or less) How do you currently track and measure program success? (150 words or less)Cambio Labs evaluates program success using a dynamic, multi-layered approach focusing on participants' skill development and competencies. Our methodology includes pre- and post-program surveys for quantitative growth assessment, mid-program focus groups for qualitative insights, peer evaluations to gauge teamwork dynamics, and design challenges on our platform to test practical skills. External judges provide critiques of their final business development and pitches and assess their development in design thinking as well. Internally,inclusivity measures ensure diverse representation and cultural competence. This comprehensive strategy, developed in collaboration with a Ph.D.-level education researcher and guided by ethical data practices, is designed to provide participants and partners with meaningful data on participants’ progress in the program, and ensure we are making meaningful progress in equipping participants with skills that close the employment and education opportunity gaps.Strategy & GrowthWhat are your organization's top goals over the next 3 years? Feel free to share goals that are related to your programs and youth, and/or goals related to your team, operations, resources, etc. (300 words or less) 196Our three-year plan focuses on expanding curricular offerings to equip youth with pathways to immediate employment and entrepreneurship in the green sector, addressing environmental concerns and bridging the opportunity gap in communities affected by environmental racism.  We plan to continue to build our cross-sectoral partnerships to expand opportunities in project-based learning, design thinking, and social and environmental entrepreneurship. We aim to incorporate artificial intelligence and data science to personalize learning experiences, enhancing resource availability for course creators and instructors, and effectively tracking and showcasing student progress and skills development. This approach is designed to make data immediately beneficial for students, instructors, and future partners, prioritizing cohesion, privacy protection, and insightful outputs to close the digital divide.Funding permitting, we plan to employ a full-time program manager specialized in curricular development and cultural competence. This manager will ensure our curriculum reflects our students' diverse experiences, challenges, strengths, and goals by recruiting and training culturally competent instructors, enhancing our mentorship program, and integrating social capital development modules into all curricula. This strategic addition will bolster our efforts to support the holistic growth of our participants and ensure that participation in our programming translates into tangible expansions in opportunities.Please share 2-3 of the top challenges facing your organization. (200 words or less)Because we aspire to meet the needs of our participants and their communities; the bulk of participation tends to be in the summer, and after working and school hours.  This introduces challenges with seasonality in terms of talent recruitment and cash flow.  While our annual revenue covers our expenses, the majority of contracts are paid at the end of summer, leaving long stretches of time without income.  Instructor recruitment is also challenging because of the seasonal nature of our work. Additionally, we place a premium on cultural competence, inclusivity, and entrepreneurial experience.  There is also a steep learning curve initially when it comes to transferring knowledge around social entrepreneurship, design thinking, and liberatory design.The high degree of customization we provide for each partner incurs additional costs which we hope to overcome with investments into our platform’s adaptability and building greater curricular development capacity  in our instructor teams. In our efforts to respond to current educational inequities, we have to create a curriculum that is adaptable to the evolving job market and the tremendously rapid changes in technology. Our programs are continuously reviewed and adjusted in response to feedback from our participants and the latest industry trends.Please describe your fundraising strategies as well as current staff resources dedicated to fundraising, i.e. full/part time development staff, Board, volunteers, etc. (250 words or less) In 2023, 14% of our revenue came from grants. Currently our director of organizational development is the primary grant writer on our team.  The rest of our income is from program revenue from contracts secured by our CEO.  Our board supports through advising, and we hope this year, can be activated in a fundraising capacity.  We deliver custom proposals based on extensive conversations with program partners and learning about the needs of youths in their programs.  We are very active in the social entrepreneurship and ed tech community and receive most of our clients through referrals. SparkYouth Partnership5A. If you were to receive three years of unrestricted funding from SparkYouth NYC, how would you use it to help your organization achieve its goals and/or address its challenges? (150 words or less) This funding could be strategically allocated towards developing a more robust instructor recruitment process, by hiring a part-time curricular expert and instructor trainer. Additionally, part of the grant could support the creation of comprehensive training programs to reduce the steep learning curve associated with teaching social entrepreneurship, design thinking, and liberatory design, making it easier for new instructors to deliver high-quality education promptly.Furthermore, the grant would enable Cambio Labs to invest in the adaptability and scalability of their platform and curricular offerings. By allocating funds towards technology enhancements and curricular development, Cambio Labs can better manage the high customization demands of their educational programs. Investments in digital tools and platforms could also offer scalable solutions to customize curriculum more quickly.  This approach lays a foundation for sustainable growth and impact, ensuring that Cambio Labs continues to meet the evolving needs of its communities and the job market effectively.If you are selected as a member of the 10th Cohort, how would you hope to be supported by the Cofactor Lab, SparkYouth's 'beyond the check' support?  In what areas (if any) do you seek capacity building support that you aren't already receiving elsewhere, i.e. strategic planning, staff development, succession planning, fundraising, financial management, etc.? Feel free to dream big and expansively about what would help 'move the needle' for your organization. (150 words or less)If selected as a member of the 10th Cohort, Cambio Labs seeks capacity-building support in strategic planning, staff development, and financial management.  Our program demand and revenue has tripled in just three years, but we are still only two full-time teammates and it has been challenging!  We would love to deep dive into making our business model truly sustainable and scalable; finetuning our pricing model; mentorship in developing robust fundraising strategies to diversify our revenue streams; and guidance in professional development to keep us responsive to the rapidly changing economy to prepare our youth for success.  We’re looking above all for thought partners and a community in how we can leverage technology to close the digital divide that excludes our youth from opportunities.