Mission Statement: Please send your most up to date mission statement(s)Cambio Labs is a nonprofit organization that provides educational technology and curricular programs that transform community members into founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions. Staff information: Please provide a short bio and a clear print-resolution photo of everyone in the leadership of the project (the individuals who comprise the official SJA class). For all staff, please provide biographical information in the following format: NAME, TITLE, DURATION IN POSITION, EDUCATION INFORMATION. As an example:Sebastián MartínFounder & CEO, 2021 to present; Babson College, MSc in Global Entrepreneurship, 2011; University of Strathclyde, MA of International Management, 2010; Warwick University, BA in Politics Philosophy & Economics, 2008Bio: Sebastián Martín is a social entrepreneur and educator. In 2013, he founded Cambio Coffee, an organic social enterprise coffee company that operated in Shanghai for 5+ years. In 2018 he moved to New York City to become an educator, and to run social innovation courses for teens. He is now the founder of Cambio Labs, a nonprofit venture that develops social entrepreneurship programs for underestimated youth and adults. Sebastián is on a mission to create access to entrepreneurial education, employment opportunities & generational wealth.Michelle MaluwetigDirector of Operations & Strategic Partnerships, 2022 to present; MBus International Business and Social Entrepreneurship, 2010; University of Queensland, BA International Relations and International Development Studies; McGill University, 2006Bio: Michelle Maluwetig is a mission-driven leader with a passion for community engagement, strategic business development, and community building and empowerment. With extensive professional experience spanning from Washington, DC, to Shanghai, China, she has demonstrated her expertise in providing technical assistance to startups and small business owners, designing engaging and informational curriculums, and advocating for low and medium-income entrepreneurs. Her career includes supervising and developing young professionals in the financial and diplomatic sector, successfully negotiating in multilateral forums, and optimizing resources in strategic partnerships. As director of organizational development at Cambio Labs, she continues to harness her skills to build, maintain, and implement strategic partnerships and contracts to ensure growth and sustainability. Sarah Zou Director of Technology & Product; 2023 to Present; IESE Business School, M.B.A. in General Business Management, 2022; McGill University, B.Sc. in Biology, 2014 Bio: Sarah Zou is a technology enthusiast who believes in its ability to disrupt and improve traditional systems like healthcare and education. Passionate about opportunity equity, she has worked in the tech sector her entire career, but has spent the past 14 years of her life volunteering in the education sector as a tutor, educator and program director to bring quality learning programs to communities that are previously underserved across Canada, Peru, Nepal and Spain. Sarah joined Cambio Labs to bring digital education to students from all backgrounds, empowering them to realize their potential in careers of the future.i. About:Cambio Labs is a nonprofit organization that provides educational technology and curricular programs that transform community members into founders of organizations driven by social and environmental missions. We serve low income BIPOC youth and adults through a variety of cross-sectoral partnerships with schools, nonprofits, and green workforce development organizations.? Delivering social entrepreneurship and green workforce development programs? Served over 349 low-income BIPOC youth and adults in NYC since 2021? 80% of all participants were paid internship stipends throughout programs? Mentorship & coaching from volunteer professionals included? Partnered with schools, corporations, nonprofits, and government agencies? Scaling with Journey, our proprietary gamified learning platformWe deliver our programs through Journey, our gamified learning platform that features multimedia lessons, prompts, prizes, and team-based challenges to help participants launch their ventures. The Journey platform also provides access to mentorship and job opportunities, and other entrepreneurial resources. Ongoing programs and initiatives include the Social Entrepreneurship Program - an incubator program for youth-led social startups, Startup NYCHA - a free business incubator for residents of public housing, and the Green Workforce Accelerator - a workforce development program designed to upskill the next generation of green collar workers and environmental entrepreneurs.HistoryCambio Labs was established in 2021 by Sebastián Martín, a social entrepreneur and educator, in response to educational and employment inequities faced by low-income BIPOC youth in New York City.  Recognizing the urgent need for financial, digital,  and self-advocacy training among the city's most creative yet underserved youth, Sebastián and two high school coders launched the first version of the Journey Platform, introducing essential social entrepreneurship training on a gamified online learning platform they designed. The platform has been piloted across 22 cohorts, is a critical part of the delivery of Cambio Lab’s entrepreneurial and  green workforce development programs. With its first expansion into the NY Public Schools in 2024, Cambio Labs has launched programs in the Bronx, Brooklyn, and Manhattan. Over 380 community members have expanded vital skills in social and environmental innovation, digital, and financial literacy. Get Involved:We want our program participants to build social capital, and to benefit from mentorship, professional services, and future employment opportunities provided by our network of volunteers and corporate partners. Please volunteer to help mold the next generation of changemakers and consider volunteering your time, industry expertise, and professional services that will benefit our nascent social entrepreneurs! If you represent a larger organization, please work with us to engage your employees to give back to the community, and to recruit interns and future employees from our pool of innovative talent.Quote and Media Contacts: Please provide a quote about how joining the UJC will help promote the work of your project, as well as a name and contact information for the person who will field press or media requests if we receive any. Additionally, if you have any media prepared clients or other beneficiaries of your work, feel free to provide their name, contact information, and quote from them (reporters are more likely to pick up stories where they know they have directly affected people willing to speak on the topic).Quote:Cambio Labs’ roadmap for the next few years is to continue expanding our educational programs and technology to serve thousands of low income people in NYC and beyond. Our long term goal is to radically improve access to NYC’s innovation ecosystem and green employment by leveraging cross-sectoral resources, educational technology, and proximate community-run programming.To accomplish this goal, we need the support and partnerships of organizations like the Urban Justice Center (UJC). By partnering up, we hope to tap into UJC's extensive advocacy experience and legal expertise to expand our entrepreneurs’ toolkit to include self-advocacy and knowledge of their rights, and to help Cambio Labs advocate for policy change to guarantee equitable access to education for all. BY participating in the Social Justice Accelerator (SJA), Cambio Labs is eager to leverage the provided funding, mentorship, and networking opportunities to optimize its impact and strategically scale. Like UJC, we believe in forging powerful cross-sectoral collaborations and hope to tap into UJC’s deep roots across sectors to broaden our access to the innovation ecosystem and green employment opportunities for businesses that emerge from our incubators.Previous Participants:Green Workforce Development ProgramsMaria Orejuela, the RETI CenterYouth Previous Participants Leo R., Prep for PrepDavid J. , Comp Sci High Ziani J., Brooklyn STEAM CenterInternshipsTiffany EchevarriaPaige ThorneTrain the Trainer ParticipantsMona KirschnerElliot LopesMichael LeeProgram Administrators from Partner OrganizationsPrep for Prep, Cindy PerezComp Sci High, John CamposBrooklyn STEAM Center, Damiano MastrandreaOyate Group, Jason AutarRETI Center, Tim GilmanNYCHA Tenant Association, Miguel Acevedo