What have you learned about your venture so far? Share how you have connected with the community you serve, the feedback you’ve gathered, and how that feedback has been applied.Our social venture has been founded with a strong commitment to community engagement and co-design. We work with community partners to develop all of our programs, which include the digital learning platform, Journey, the Social Entrepreneurship Program, and the Green Workforce Development Program. Throughout the 1.5 years of operations, we have been able to serve 199 individual participants with the invaluable support of our community.We firmly believe that those who are closest to the issues are also best equipped to solve them. Hence, we follow an iterative process where we invite and integrate the feedback of our community members, who we center as experts. Our approach is based on user-centered design, where we test our assumptions about community needs and engage in two-way dialogues to cultivate empathy before we design. Some examples include weekly meetings with school and nonprofit administrators to daily engagements with our entrepreneurs and alumni entrepreneurs, in-person and in our online Discord community. As a result, we have learned that multimedia content, gamification, and project-based learning are powerful tools for enhancing student engagement and innovation. Our students have produced incredible innovations, including standout projects such as Right Direction, which develops a shelter-hotel system to help families find longer-term solutions in the Bronx, and Global Finery, a clothing company that provides affordable diverse clothing options for diverse body types. The feedback from students, school leaders, and partner organizations has informed improvements to our strategy and platform, including ensuring that our curriculum always highlights entrepreneurs of color, recruiting BIPOC coaches, creating a robust suite of online teacher and coaching tools, packaging student and cohort data in a way that will be useful for schools and districts to measure "innovation development," and aligning our program with state and school-recognized credentials and program requirements.We survey student entrepreneurs about their development of "durable skills", satisfaction with the program and technology platform. This has led to significant changes in our digital learning platform and interface. After each cohort, our interviews target students and teachers to test and receive feedback about our platform and program design. We have also learned that schools are in need of innovative solutions that provide culturally competent and supportive programming without being overly burdensome for educators. Our social entrepreneurs and educators inform the content, mode of learning, pacing of our programs, and the integration of diverse coaches, workshops, and activities available on our platform to meet our learners where they are. What has been your biggest challenge and success since starting your venture? Explain how you overcame that challenge and why the success meant so much to you.  Our biggest challenge has been to meet the demand for our program, which has doubled. Every organization that has had the opportunity to experience the impact of our program on their community, has fortunately renewed and expanded contracts with Cambio Labs. Our team consists of two full-time employees and a cadre of volunteer experts that we use on an “as needed” basis. Some of the responsibilities that these two people carry out are supervising and administrating every aspect of this complex operation, including the development of a learning platform, curriculum development, logistics, legal considerations, hiring and onboarding educators, bookkeeping, conducting community outreach, seeking feedback, revising the curriculum, and creating content.  To overcome this challenge, we have sought volunteer help through Catchafire, Volunteermatch, and We the Action for legal support and guidance. We are proud to say that we have gained the dedicated support from a large number of volunteers and we manage at least 10 volunteers at any given time. They have provided assistance with things like web design, legal advice, video editing, developing branding guides, and helping us administer our Google Ads grant.  Our volunteers, who bring amazing individual expertise, don’t hesitate to offer their talents to Cambio Labs generously and regularly. This not only gives us encouragement, but also validates that what we are doing for our target communities is inspiring to the larger professional population. How would an investment from the Angel Syndicate spark JOY in your venture and the lives of your impacted community? Please share a specific example of what an investment from the Angel Syndicate would mean to you and how you will use the money.We want to continue to provide high quality educational and life changing experiences for the people that we serve. We would like to dedicate more resources to learning from our community members by interviewing them, connecting more with alumni, and incorporating valuable feedback from stakeholders into our curriculum and platform design. We believe that by making our curriculum and platform more culturally relevant to our predominantly BIPOC and low income users, that we can make our entrepreneurial program more JOYFUL and meaningful and rewarding for them! We go to great lengths to incorporate relevant local case studies, to work with mentors and hire folx that look like our students, and to demystify and break down entrepreneurship for our students by reframing things with accessible language and highlighting examples of local and BIPOC changemakers. This all takes research, outreach, and administrative overhead, and $5,000 would enable our team to do this work more effectively. Additionally $5,000 could have a real impact on our scrappy operation. It could cover: one team member’s salary for a month, 25% of a new program sponsored; the next round of platform code development; or a  videographer for the summer to build our marketing and curricular content. Currently, I have deferred my salary for several months to pay my team. $5k could give me a little bit of breathing room to not feel so resource strapped; to feel more able to share more time with loved ones, to get married this year, and to have a bit more work-life balance as we continue to grow.Aside from funding, how do you hope to leverage this Angel Funder community's time, talents, treasures, and ties to advance your organization's mission? (i.e. networking, coaching, accountability partner, etc)We would love to partner with the Angel Funder community beyond this financial contribution. Cambio Labs can benefit from the generous knowledge, resources, and time that the Angel Funder community provides.  Some possibilities are coaching and/or introductions to volunteer coaches, resources, scholarships, or programs that can strengthen our team's capacity in grant writing and cloud computing solutions for our platform, programs, and community.  As we have received the majority of our funding from program revenue, we would benefit from support in developing our grant writing capacities and strategic fundraising strategies. We also welcome ideas for expanding our board with experts in the edtech and social entrepreneurship space. We believe that these resources can help us achieve our mission and make a greater impact in our community.Lastly, Cambio Labs was established to empower underestimated youth and adults as we train them to become 21st century professional and social entrepreneurs that make a local community impact. We support students by connecting them to coaching, investments, and prizes as they establish their new social ventures. We would be very interested in funneling resources from the Angel Funder community to our students, and in creating a pipeline of applicants from Cambio Labs to 4.0.