Provide additional details on the specific target beneficiaries of your work.Maximum 200 wordsOur focus is on providing tools to our core beneficiaries, low income BIPOC adolescents (15-18) and adults (18+), to help them become the changemakers their communities need. We offer social entrepreneurship programming for high school students, as well as green workforce development programs and startup accelerators for adults. Our target clients are community-based organizations, programs, or schools with social missions to empower understated adolescents and adults by equipping them with social innovation skills and work-based learning opportunities.We serve folks in under-resourced areas of the Bronx, Manhattan, and Brooklyn, New York City.We implement a cross-sectoral strategy, and work with different partner organizations to reach marginalized youth and adults.Our primary target clients are government agencies, accelerators, K-12 schools, and workforce development organizations.  We tailor our partnerships and contracts according to client needs; primarily a selection or combination of the following services; (i) program delivery and instruction, (ii) training for curricula delivery of their own educators, (iii) access to the Journey learning platform for the social and/or green entrepreneurship curricula, and (iv) licensing the customization of the Journey learning platform for delivery for their own curricula.Since Cambio Labs’ launch in 2021, we have tested the second iteration of our Minimum Viable Product (MVP), Journey with 22 different programs for 22 different clients in settings that vary from 10-month programs in high school classrooms to 3-week intensive green workforce development programs for solar panel installation and certification.Since launching in 2021, we have served 199 individual youths, hired or trained 7 instructors to deliver our curricula using the Journey platform, trained and engaged 15 volunteer coaches to support our social entrepreneurs. We are proud to report 66% of our program participants have engaged in paid work-based learning opportunities.  We generated $140,000 in program revenue in our first year, and this year, we are in the process of securing proposals that will total $300,000 in 2023. All our clients have renewed and expanded their contracts with us, and have invited us to apply jointly for funding to expand programming. Our outreach model involves partnering with grassroot, frontline, community-run organizations that have established trusted relationships with the families of our beneficiaries. We are active in the social innovation ecosystem and are looking to grow our community through our involvement with organizations like the CITY Fellowship by Company Ventures, 4.0 Schools, 100 Coaches, the RETI Center, and Communitas America. We have recently onboarded a second full-time employee, who has activated our social media platforms, revamped our website, and engaged Play Creative, a digital marketing agency, to design a pro-bono digital outreach campaign using our $10,000/month Google Ad grant to recruit mentors and coaches for our students.Since Cambio Labs’ launch in 2021, we have tested the second iteration of our Minimum Viable Product (MVP), Journey with 22 different programs for 22 different clients in settings that vary from 10-month programs in high school classrooms to 3-week intensive green workforce development programs for solar panel installation and certification.Journey is a dynamic online learning platform we built that features multimedia lessons, prompts, and team-based challenges to help participants launch their ventures. As they progress, users earn “gemstones” that can be exchanged for prizes, workshops, and services provided by our corporate and global partners and volunteers. The platform also provides access to mentorship programs, job opportunities, and other resources, making it a gateway to a broader ecosystem of support for participants. Feedback is actively gathered before, during, and after programming through various methods, including interviews, observations, and participatory design sessions with community members, students, educators, and other stakeholders. This comprehensive feedback mechanism allows Cambio Labs to refine and customize its curricula and the Journey platform, ensuring our programs are aligned with and responsive to the users' and community needs.Cambio Labs empowers marginalized youth in New York City by providing social entrepreneurial programsand linkages to trusted mentors. Our target audience are BIPOC adolescents and young adults between the ages of 14-24. In our 8-week program, participants form teams to create and launch their own socially and environmentally focused organizations. They use our online and gamified platform, Journey, to earn rewards to strengthen their ventures by completing lessons, prompts, and project-based challenges. It also offers robust tools for teachers for assessment and facilitation. Students in the program tackle hyperlocal social and environmental problems. They form teams, interact with potential customers, do research, and create prototypes. They test their ideas, develop a business model, and present their work to judges for prizes. The course is hands-on and practical, using the best methods of student-centered and project-based learning. Students also get guidance from Cambio Coaches as they start their companies.Please tell us about the status of product/service, if you've Letter of Interest (LOI) or pilots or beta testing. Please specify your testing process, including sample size, tools used, people you spoke with, takeaways, etcCambio Labs target customers are organizations that serve to empower participants from underestimated BIPOC communities with entrepreneurship and workforce skills development. Our primary target clients are government agencies, accelerators, K-12 schools, and workforce development organizations.  We tailor our partnerships and contracts according to client needs; primarily a selection or combination of the following services; (i) program delivery and instruction, (ii) training for curricula delivery of their own educators, (iii) access to the Journey learning platform for the social and/or green entrepreneurship curricula, and (iv) licensing the customization of the Journey learning platform for delivery for their own curricula.For the most part, our services are delivered  in a hybrid model, in-person with the support of our online learning platform, "Journey," which includes lessons, videos, prompts, project-based challenges, and a gamification component to enhance engagement and learning. Cambio Labs' curriculum is designed to be highly interactive and digitized, aiming for scalability and increased accessibility????.What role do you currently play in fostering an equitable entrepreneurial environment in your community? What drives you to do this work? *Maximum 200 wordsAll of the work of Cambio Labs is to provide access to educational and entrepreneurial opportunities for low income BIPOC people, addressing inequities in our current innovation and business ownership ecosystem. I am a coach that mentors several underrepresented entrepreneurs, a facilitator of accelerator programming, and the founder of a nonprofit that tackles the issue of inequitable access to entrepreneurial education and 21st century work opportunities. I want to address the exclusion of entrepreneurs of color from business education and opportunities and the widening digital divide between low-income and high-income communities.  The lack of access to opportunity, funding, knowledge, and support is greater than ever before, especially for historically underserved communities The digital divide also perpetuates systemic inequality, excluding marginalized communities from access to digital tools and maintaining structures and narratives that benefit the privileged- this includes a very exclusive, narrow definition of entrepreneurship, that erases the contributions of courageous, hardworking, and creative business people who abound in our communities.I want to change this by centering BIPOC youth and social innovation in the design and delivery of business curricula and technology for underestimated youth and adults in New York City.   Our curricula and the learning platform we designed centers liberatory design and design thinking; when our young entrepreneurs engage with our programming, we encourage them to design solutions with the community, with empathy and equity as the guiding principle.  Our curriculum and gamified digital platform has been developed by a team of social entrepreneurs and educators in partnership with community leaders and participants. We leverage technology by designing software to support youth in their social entrepreneurial journey in a way that is engaging and culturally competent. We encourage our participants to design prototypes and minimal viable products (MVPs) to pitch in a social business competition, using no-code solutions, artificial intelligence, and introduce them to blockchain certification.  We work tirelessly to only partner in a way that allows us to not only provide this education at no-cost for participants, but we also try our best for it to be a paid apprenticeship; 80% of our participants receive stipends. Additionally, our program connects students with trusted mentors in the fields of technology, finance, sustainability, and entrepreneurship as “rewards” in our gamified platform; as they complete challenges and prompts on the platform and earn “gemstones.”We offer a safe environment for participants to identify, study and understand community issues they care deeply about, develop diverse portfolios of projects, master the art of pitching their ventures, establish vital industry connections, and design and advocate for their solutions’ viability and even receive seed funding. We champion a new generation of entrepreneurs who prioritize and uplift their neighborhoods, revolutionizing the entrepreneurship landscape in low income communities.In my experience as a business educator and microfinance loan officer serving immigrant and low-income adult entrepreneurs, I have worked with some of the most inspiring people.  They have overcome incredible adversity and institutional isolation and still have created thriving In our programs, participants work in teams to design business solutions for issues they care about in their communities.  Through a social innovation incubator, merging design thinking with project-based learning, participants are equipped with 21st century skills to prepare them for an evolving, tech-driven economy. With the support of our digital learning platform, we deliver an immersive experience where participants form teams to tackle societal challenges, fostering skills in empathy, stakeholder analysis, and problem-solving. The curriculum, adaptable in length, emphasizes hands-on community engagement and empathy research, guiding participants in developing sustainable business models for social impact. In preparation for a final pitch before a panel of judges of investors and entrepreneurs, students fine-tune their marketing and sustainability strategies, learn to develop a viable business model, and understand revenue and cost structures. Most importantly, as a team, they acquire critical collaborative skills, develop financial and digital literacy, and learn self-advocacy.  Our platform allows us to meet our learners where they are, provide live feedback, and provide an engaging and gamified learning experience, where they “earn-to-learn” by completing challenges and earning “gemstones” that they can cash in for time with industry leaders and expert mentors to strengthen their ventures in our digital marketplace. We also introduce social innovators in our program how to leverage technology, from developing no-code prototypes, to introducing participants to leveraging artificial intelligence and blockchain in the value-creating process. Cambio Labs aims to close the digital divide that excludes our communities from building intergenerational wealth.What motivated you to apply for the PLACE Builders fellowship? How do you believe this program will enhance your ability to support and grow your local entrepreneurial ecosystem? *Maximum 200 wordsI applied for the PLACE Builders Fellowship because of the way that this initiative focuses on supporting “equitable entrepreneurial ecosystem builders”. This seems so specific, and like an apt description of the type of work that I do with Cambio Labs - so I feel like I would be uniquely seen and understood among the PLACE builders community, and  uniquely qualified to be part of this cohort. I am also very connected to making an impact on New York City - leveraging partnerships across NYC infrastructure, government agencies, organizations, and citizens - and I feel like the Place Builders program could help improve my strategies to create place-based infrastructure, programs, and technology that can serve underestimated entrepreneurs in my city.I think the PLACE will deepen my understanding of social innovation practice, and will enable me to learn from the perspectives and strategies of change makers that I never would have otherwise met. I think that being part of such an immersive educational and communal experience may make me a more effective social entrepreneur as well as give me a new network of potential collaborators, supporters, and accountability partners that I could build with to scale our solutions nationally or internationally. I am eager to be connected to different changemakers across the country, a new network of collaborators, and resources like training and funding that will benefit me on my social entrepreneurial journey.  Eight builders representing regions across the country will have an opportunity to build their capacity through training, peer support, and community pilots. Fellows will have access to professional mentorship, a digital toolkit, community, funding, and a platform to tell the stories about the places they love to a broader audience. By the end of the fellowship, each builder will also have identified, developed, and launched a pilot project to either address an ecosystem gap or scale something that’s working well.By the end of this fellowship, you will have identified, developed, and launched a pilot project. Can you outline a potential project idea that addresses an ecosystem gap or scales something that’s working well in your community? Please explain how this project aligns with the goals of the PLACE Builders program. *Don't worry - you will not be beholden to this particular proposal and a very rough outline for a vision is fine. Maximum 300 words.A potential pilot project that we would like to launch is called Startup NYCHA - an initiative to bring entrepreneurship programs and business development support to public housing residents - who have historically been divested in, and where there exists a lot of untapped entrepreneurship that could create jobs  and generational wealth.Unemployment rates in public housing developments in New York City are three times higher than the citywide average, with 20% of residents being unemployed compared to 7% in the city as a whole. The median income for households in public housing developments in New York City is $24,000 per year, compared to the citywide median income of $71,000 per year.  According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, the rate of business creation in lower-income areas is significantly lower than the rest of NYC. Providing support for business creation and strengthening durable skills is one way that residents can create employment and wealth for their communities.In our vision all New Yorkers, regardless of zip code or income level, would have access to economic opportunity, business ownership, and the tools of innovation. Through the Startup NYCHA program, residents would be able to launch their own companies or cooperatives, secure employment and internship opportunities, and launch community-based projects that address local social and environmental challenges.  NYCHA would become a place where people’s entrepreneurial visions could thrive.We hope to start a city-wide entrepreneurial movement within NYCHA by demonstrating what is possible when we provide underestimated youth and adults with the programs, support, and resources to become founders of socially and environmentally responsible businesses and organizations. Eventually, we would like to replicate this model in other cities.I think this pilot program idea aligns with the PLACE Builder program’s focus on equitable entrepreneurial ecosystems that are place-based.