 Please state the mission of your organization/project: Cambio Labs develops educational apps and programs that equip students and workers with 21st century competencies in fields of entrepreneurship, design, and service. We design and deliver educational experiences that are transformative, empowering, and socially impactful. We are a social venture on a mission to tap the change making potential of schools, communities, and innovation ecosystems. We build and join movements that fight for universal access to quality education, youth empowerment, environmentalism, and democratized entrepreneurship. Have you previously applied for The Innovation Fund with The Workers Lab?YesDoes the project lead consider themselves an entrepreneur?Sebastian Martin is a social entrepreneur. In 2013 he founded Cambio Coee, an organic social enterprise coee company that operated in Shanghai for over 5 years as a coee importer, wholesale distributor, community events space, and cafe. Cambio sourced directly from indigenous cooperatives in Latin America and China and committed to reinvesting 5% of gross profit to rural development projects.In one sentence, please describe your innovative idea that can help workers come back stronger. There are a number of definitions out there about what a “quality job” entails. Which component of a “quality job” does your project address? My project focuses mostly on ensuring workers have their basic needs met and have stability and agency on a more individual basis. Please select the statement that best describes your project’s outcomes as related to individual and/or collective worker power.? Security in life - workers have stability from a pay perspective and work-life perspective with their basic needs and ambitions being met now and in retirement ? Mobility in work and life - workers have access to viable and accessible pathways for growth and advancement ? Safety and health at work - physical, environmental, or psychological harm, and threats are reduced  ? Career Paths ? Wages We would love to learn a little about you! Please briefly share what resonates with you about this cycle’s focus on workers coming back stronger. As an educator, social entrepreneur, and son of Latin immigrants, I am launching a social venture now that can transform the lives of our society's most vulnerable young people and workers during this time of unprecedented crisis and instability, by re-skilling them for a complex and challenging 21st century economy and world. This is urgent. COVID-19 has revealed that government institutions and social safety nets have failed to protect American workers during times of extreme crisis, and confirmed that low income communities and workers of color will be the first and worst affected by future economic downturns and climate disasters. Please list the workers or workforce your creative idea is targeting. at-risk youth & high school dropouts (future workers), underemployed graduates, workers that lost their job due to the pandemic, nascent entrepreneurs, teachers, low income and underrepresented students & workers of color Please describe the problem(s) this project addresses and how it specifically affects workers of color (Black, Indigenous, or otherwise). Our current American school system is not equipping youth for the challenges of a 2050 world or workforce that adults could not even begin to predict. Since our public school system has not been significantly updated since 1983, we employ an industrial age educational system focused on standardized testing and rote vocational training, while lacking in project-based learning and opportunities for students to engage in real world problem solving. Every year over 1.2 million students drop out of high school. 32% of minority students attend a "dropout factory" (graduating less than 60% of its students) compared to 8% of white students. Because funding for public schools is determined by property taxes, major differences in school quality have emerged between rich and poor neighborhoods, and between industrialized and rural areas. Students of color have been disproportionately impacted, being much more likely to attend schools with less enrichment activities, worse facilities, and less experienced teachers when compared to their white counterparts. College graduation rates for white students are 24 and 17 % higher than than their black and Hispanic peers respectively. Our education system is not preparing young people for success in our current or future economy, and this problem has disproportionately affected people of color. In the last three recessions, 88% of job loss took place in highly automatable occupations, positions that disproportionately affect Black and Latinx communities where individuals are less likely than their white peers to have more than a high school education. COVID-19 has only exacerbated preexisting structural inequities. Please describe your creative idea. Is it a program, service, tool, strategy, or something else? Help us understand how it works and how it can address the problems you identified in the previous question. Cambio Labs develops educational apps and programs that equip students and workers with 21st century competencies in fields of entrepreneurship, design, and service. Our current value propositions include: 1) Journey, an app & digital platform for students, workers, and nascent entrepreneurs to develop entrepreneurial skills, launch their startup projects, and gain coaching from professional Cambio Coaches. Journey will feature engaging video content, perks and prizes for completing entrepreneurial challenges, and opportunities for users to connect with potential funders and employers. By developing a nonprofit model that leverages in kind services from corporations and volunteer coaches from various STEM, creative, and innovation industries, our goal is to create a pipeline for mentorship, internship, and job placement opportunities for Journey users; and 2) Cambio Courses, or social innovation programs that schools can adopt as elective classes, after school programs, or clubs. Cambio Lab's curricular strategy centers on project based learning, creating autonomy-supportive spaces, and equipping students to become real world problem solvers and change makers. Content and initiatives focus on social entrepreneurship, design thinking in education, and community-driven service projects. Curriculum and strategic support for such "change-centered" programming will be provided to trained Cambio Teachers and school leaders at partner schools. In commercializing the Journey platform and Cambio Courses, we will implement a "Buy 1 Give Education" model. In other words, for every paid Journey subscription or school program, a fully sponsored one will be provided to users from low income and underserved communities of color, as well as to Title 1 schools. Please describe how you have engaged workers to date in the development of this idea and what you have learned from that engagement. We firmly believe that engaging workers at various phases of an idea’s development is paramount. If you have already engaged workers, please share how. If you have not, please share why that is so and any plans you have to engage them. In launching Cambio Courses for schools - "change centered" programs centered on social entrepreneurship, design, and service - I have piloted and presented classes to teens as the Social Innovation Program Lead at Avenues: (a K12 NYC-based school). From 2018-20 I have coached 30+ student startup teams, organized 40+ design challenges with teachers and students at various schools, and engaged 20+ community partners and independent organizations to participate in social innovation projects. As I interpret high school students as "future workers" that I intend to support, I do believe that I have picked up valuable lessons in terms of pedagogical techniques, content effectiveness for a youth audience, and how to leverage technology to improve and enhance my curriculum. Although I did organize design challenges and projects with various public and charter school teachers, I have yet to extensively test course content with target low income students. Piloting Cambio Courses in underserved school districts will be a major goal and learning opportunity throughout the next year. In launching the Journey platform, I have developed a basic prototype and landing page which I intend to market to potential users to gauge their interest. My goal is to elicit 1,000 indications of interest within 1 month. Please share your vision for ‘scale’ and what scaling this idea would look like after the 12 month grant year.Scaling our Journey platform, I want a growing user base that is being coached and mentored. In scaling our Cambio Courses I want schools representing different geographic areas in the USA, income levels, and types of schools (private, charter, and public) piloting and using our programming. Examples of social ventures that have successfully scaled within the public school system include David Wish of Little Kids Rock (that tactfully targeted Teachers' College to enter public schools). End of 12 month goals: 2000+ Journey users, 10 school partners, 2 University partners, and 1 significant national vocational training program of government partner How do you plan to sustain and resource this work? In financing Cambio Labs, I hope to attract a blended source of funding: from earned income, to philanthropy and grants, to social and impact investors that are interested in recouping investments and donating excess returns. As I non-prot with a strong commercial product and business model, I hope to leverage earned income in a variety of ways, including: payments for Journey subscriptions, dues from Cambio clubs, fees for additional consulting and coaching, and job placement and HR services for companies as we funnel a pool of well-trained latent their way. Please share no more than three S.M.A.R.T. goals for this project and the estimated timeline for achieving each over a 12 month period. Goal 1: Confirm 2,000 Journey subscribers by the end of 2021. Goal 2: Pilot Cambio Courses in at least 10 schools in 3 distinct school districts by the end of 2021. Goal 3: Over at least 1,000 free Journey subscriptions and 10 free school programs to users and schools that represent low income students or school districts by the end of 2021. What do you hope to learn from further developing and testing your idea in the coming year? I hope to validate various core assumptions around successfully launching Cambio Labs, including: whether there is sufficient demand for my innovation to make it financially sustainable and sufficiently impactful; whether I can blend an apt nancing and business model to balance economic and social objectives; whether I can attract a phenomenal team to help me achieve success; and whether we can successfully validate our theory of change, reducing high school drop our rates and increasing job placements as a direct result of our platforms and programming. What skills and/or experience do you and your team have to execute this project? Before becoming an educator, I dedicated my career to developing an organization that could deliver empowerment and access to some of the most underrepresented and poorest people on the planet - coee farmers in developing countries. In launching Cambio Coee, I successfully built relationships with coee cooperatives across various countries, worked minimum wage jobs as a barista and coee roaster for the sake of gaining operational knowledge, constantly networked and pitched my ideas in the startup ecosystems of Boston and Shanghai, raised over $400K throughout 5 years, and operated a successful social enterprise coee company in the explosive and incredibly challenging emerging market context of China. I have the vision, grit, experience, and a track record of attracting the resources and support networks necessary to establish and grow a venture. More recently as an educator and Social Innovation Program Lead at Avenues NYC, I have gained invaluable experience as a program director and educational innovator: operating autonomously to develop and execute my own social innovation curriculum, teaching 4 courses and coaching students and teachers, and developing deep networks of support for my work within my school, and among like-minded organizations across the country. I have the unconventional, cross-disciplinary background to succeed. If awarded a grant, what kinds of expenses would you anticipate these funds might cover? Estimated Year 1 Ramp Up Costs (USD) Platform / Prototype Development 20,000 Marketing Budget 20,000 Program Materials, Platforms, Supplies 7,000 Website Development Budget 2,0009 of 10 Outsourced Marketing & Product Development 5000 12 Month Founder Living Stipend 80,000 Registration & Licensing Budget 1,000 Part Time Coach, Product Dev & Sales Representative Stipends 15,000 Total Budget: 150,000 