What is the need in your community that you are trying to address? *Through my venture, Cambio Labs, I hope to address several problems that exist in my community and the K-12 education system: 1) the education that is widely available to young people in the USA is characterized by rote learning and testing, and does not offer students enough experiential and project-based learning, student agency and autonomy, or opportunities for real world problem solving; 2) in terms of access to educational resources and transformative learning environments, there are major inequities in the American education system, disproportionately affecting public and charter schools from lower tax revenue districts, and young people from economically disadvantaged, immigrant, minority, and historically marginalized backgrounds; 3) teen innovators, entrepreneurs, designers, organizers, and activists are not sufficiently empowered and supported by adult educators, innovators, investors, activists, government representatives, and policy makers; 4) the collective talent and innovation that young people can offer to solve some of our world’s most intractable social and environmental problems goes largely overlooked and untapped. Young people everywhere (especially those that have been historically marginalized and underrepresented in society) deserve an education that empowers them as innovative change-makers, and an opportunity to acquire practical skills and a sense of purpose that can transform their lives forever. Our current education system is currently failing to democratize and offer this to our young people. empowerment, or self-realization all young people deserve access to purposeful work, and to be empowered as entrepreneurs, designers, change-makers, community organizers, and activists.What is your idea? *Cambio Labs is a platform and accelerator for student-led, social innovation. Our mission is to deliver social innovation programs to K-12 schools that emphasize real world problem solving, social entrepreneurship, design for community and global impact, and youth activism. Projects and curricula that have been developed and tested so far include: Build your Own Social Startup (the BOSS Program), where teen entrepreneurs form teams to ideate, pitch, prototype, and launch their own companies to tackle social and environmental problems; the Cambio Club Network, a student-led network of after school clubs that introduce design thinking into schools, organize design challenges around furthering Sustainable Development Goals, and work with real social impact organizations as design consultants; Community Design Incubator (CDI), where students form partnerships and sustainable service relationships with local nonprofits, community organizations, and government representatives to develop and test solutions that serve authentic local community member needs; and Act Now, a program built around exploring different modes of political agency and activism, where students can join, amplify, and launch their own political projects, campaigns, and movements. Cambio Labs’ programs help young people develop practical skills and mindsets that will serve them in the future: creativity, adaptability, empathy, grit, teamwork, project management, communication skills, a bias towards experimentation and action, and an orientation towards community. Our objectives as an organization are to make these programs as widely accessible and equitable as possible, and to radically collaborate across sectors to funnel resources, partnerships, and support for young change-makers and student-led innovation.Tell us more about the communities you selected in the previous question. What are the defining features of the community you want to work with? Be specific. *Cambio Labs’ free educational programming will primarily target high school students in the USA that attend schools that are recipients of Title 1 funding (earmarked for students from low-income families or most “at risk” of not meeting academic standards), and public schools that are historically underfunded and/or predominantly attended by minority students. We have chosen to target students in grades 9-12 because they are more capable and predisposed to being interested in entrepreneurship and championing social causes relative to their younger counterparts, and gaining real world exposure and developing practical skills is more pressing for them as they think about their purpose and future career paths after graduation. We have chosen to work with the most economically disadvantaged and predominantly minority schools because national studies have shown that these schools consistently receive less access to educational resources, quality curriculum, and qualified teachers relative to affluent and predominantly white schools.While this type of social innovation programming can be adapted for elementary and middle school students, our primary target for student engagement with Cambio Labs will be high school students who have more of a predisposition to be politically aware and active, with a desire to develop skills and a sense of purpose to guide them after graduation, and who may be more interested in alternative education that may develop their vocational or entrepreneurial skills in case they are not planning to pursue post graduate schooling. This type of programming might also better engage them and encourage teens to stay in school rather than drop out. While our goal is to make this programming available to high school students everywhere, our goal and social mission dictates that we prioritize making it accessible to underserved youth: “at-risk youth”, students of color, more vulnerable socio-economic students from more traditionally marginalized backgrounds. Offering our programming to private schools will substantiate Cambio’s revenue generating model, but programming for underserved schools and students will be offered for free - or covered by philanthropy, government grants, or by income generated from charging private schools.What challenges do you anticipate in bringing your idea to life? *Challenges that I forsee in scaling Cambio Labs: 1) navigating the highly regulated and bureaucratic public school system (with departments and allowances varying from state to state) to have our programs adopted across various states; 2) developing the infrastructure and team to scale the delivery of programs across the USA, and eventually, internationally. This will require the recruitment of qualified instructors and trainers, advocates that can continually introduce our programs to new districts and schools, strategic partners in each target area with deep local knowledge of community partners and school networks, and a backend system to coordinate the allocation of resources and support for programs, and track key metrics and results throughout network of schools; 3) fundraising from a diverse set of potential financiers, including: government grants and educational accelerators, philanthropy, and income from services and licensed programs for private or affluent schools (efforts into developing this last income stream will have to be carefully balanced, as our primary mission is to deliver programs to underserved schools); 4) developing intergenerational partnerships and support from key adult stakeholders - educational district managers, investors, government officials, policymakers - who will be critical in ensuring that student-led social innovation has real world legitimacy and impact. >Making it available to public schools and bureaucracy of highly regulated schools> demonstrating proof of concept through one pilot to validate idea enough for scale> juggling full time Avenues job and launch> Fundraising>team building> recruiting team and partners to scale> Resources: to make truly accessible, to develop online platform and toolkits and training to make scalable and accessible>track succes metrics> balance for-profit>develop an online versionWhat is your vision for educational equity in your community? How does your proposed idea move your community closer to your vision of educational equity? *We believe that all young people, everywhere, deserve access to an education that prepares them for a complex world where creative problem solving skills are paramount; where their input as social innovators and changemakers will be urgently needed in an uncertain future. For generations upon generations, adults have subjugated young people to live by their rules, their hierarchical systems, their inadequate schools and governments--to their greed, their conflicts, their “business as usual” and disregard for suffering people and planet. Young people and youth-led innovation have been sorely underrepresented, and teens deserve a seat at the table to help shape the world they are destined to inherit.At Cambio Labs, we believe that our educational programs and movement - centered on youth-led social entrepreneurship, design, community impact, and intergenerational support - empowers young people and provides them with some generational equity.We also recognize the vast differences between learning environments and lived experiences of high school students across the USA, depending on their school district, ethnicity, and socio-economic background. Because we are a progressive organization that believes in educational equity and works to dismantle historic systems of oppression and structural injustice, we prioritize serving the most disadvantaged students (from low-income, minority, and immigrant backgrounds) because power dynamics within the existing educational system are already stacked against them. While Cambio Labs aims to empower all young people to become changemakers and social innovators, we prioritize empowering those teens most affected by social injustice; those with the least access, currently and historically, to transformative education.If you were testing your idea tomorrow and we stopped by for a visit, what would we see? *If you were to visit a successful pilot of Cambio Labs, you might visit a space within a Title 1 school that was seemingly taken over by students every other day after school for 3 months. You might see students grouped together as teams, actively exchanging, creating, and working together to overcome a common challenge. Instructors would float between groups and coach teams flexibly. You might see diagrams on walls with Business Model Canvases, prioritized tasks, lists of critical assumptions and ongoing experiments to validate ideas. You might see students sketching, prototyping with basic materials, developing websites, posting sticky notes on walls, talking on the phone to customers or community partners, or leaving the building to conduct interviews with target users, experts, or community beneficiaries. Throughout the 3 month pilot program, the Cambio Labs team would regularly interview students and administrators to gather insights to iteratively improve and tweak programming.Think about the other people working to address the same need as your idea. How are they similar or different from you? List any relevant organizations. *There are various organizations working in different sectors (youth entrepreneurship, design, education reform, policy-making) that address parts of Cambio Lab’s target problems and community needs.Teen entrepreneurship programs and accelerators exist like Whatever It Takes, The Knowledge Society, Quarter Zero, and Junior Achievement- but many charge tuition for their programs and are not integrated into K-12 schools. Free youth entrepreneurship programs like Launch X and NFTE are great exemplars of more accessible programs, but they don’t require student ventures to have social missions. Progressive schools like One Stone, MVIFI, Nueva, and Avenues (where I currently teach) offer social innovation and design programming within their K-12 curriculum, but they are private schools and incredibly costly for the average American family. Nonprofit organizations like Project Invent and Mouse are perhaps most aligned to Cambio’s social mission and vision for educational equity, as they target the most disadvantaged youth with innovation programming. Organizations that work to politicize young people include DoSomething.org, Global Citizen, and United Nations Youth Committees and Summits, but historically these initiatives have failed to result in major structural and policy change led by youth. As Cambio Labs we intend to tackle our target problems through radical collaboration, working across sectors and with organizations that might be labelled “competition”. We care about the big picture, and believe that this cooperative mindset also sets us apart. We want to know that you’re tackling an issue that meets a need in your community. What steps have you taken to see if your community has shown demand in your idea? *I have validated the need, demand, and effectiveness of Cambio Labs in various ways with relevant stakeholders in my community. My most immediate validation came from running the Social Innovation Program at Avenues since September 2018, allowing me to develop original curriculum and test it out with real high school students (albeit, my school population is predominantly affluent and white, and not my target population for Cambio Labs). The results were encouraging: high levels of student engagement, 4 student ventures launched, 9 design challenges organized, and a major student-led Social Innovation Summit executed. I also organized several intra-school events and challenges with other schools from across NYC, and over 10 schools (including various public schools) were represented. In developing community projects, I met leaders of public housing that expressed interest in more collaborative after school programs and projects for their younger residents. Knowing this, I organized a program which led to the creation of a community mural between schools and community residents. Concerning my vision for Cambio Labs on a national scale, I have pitched the idea of partnership to organizations like Project Invent in California, Innovare in Chicago, and Izone within NYC’s DOE, and have received positive initial feedback.How do you see your leadership development connecting to developing your idea? *250 wordsFor me to successfully launch and scale Cambio Labs, it is crucial that I continue to develop as a leader in my community, and as the leader of my startup organization. I believe in (and have taught and coached) a multi-dimensional, co-active model of leadership. This means not just “leading from the front” as a boss or archetypal director that implements his vision- it also means “leading from the side” as a collaborative peer, “leading from behind” as a coach and adviser that asks powerful questions, and “leading from the field” as someone that is attuned to the landscape in which I operate and can pick up on unspoken and social-emotional cues. In my mind, leadership is not formulaic, and different contexts call for different styles of leadership. The important thing is for me to be adaptive, to actively listen to my colleagues and beneficiaries, and to always humbly practice “servant leadership” in a way that I am maximizing benefits and cohesion for my team, board of advisers, and end users. These leadership skills and adaptive mindset will be crucial in the development of Cambio Labs: in creating a productive culture that motivates and electrifies my team; in developing trust and openness among my employees and strategic partners, to be able to work through challenges and conflicts together; in being self-aware and checking my own privilege when engaging and listening to local community members; and in being receptive to feedback and advice from coaches, collaborators, and school representatives and students.Where do you feel you have the most room to grow as a leader? *I am a constant “work in progress” and aspire to be a life-long learner, experimenter, and community-builder. I am committed to becoming self aware of my missteps and shortcomings, and constantly striving to develop as a leader and movement-maker. In being an effective social entrepreneur, I want to do more to maximize impact. By reading books like Lean Impact and Social Startup Success, I have recognized the limitations of social enterprises, and have adopted more of a flexible, cross-sectoral approach in my formation of Cambio as a cooperative, non-profit entity that always prioritizes impact first. I spent much of my career developing entrepreneurial expertise by absorbing mentorship and advice from others, and feeding myself concepts like Lean Startup and Design Thinking. While I subscribe to these ideas, I sometimes struggle to apply these processes as rigorously as I should to my own projects. It’s sometimes easier to teach and advise others than to practice what you preach - this is an area that I am working on by being disciplined and mindful of process. As an innovator interested in dismantling structural inequities and empowering others, I have tried to school myself on issues of race, privilege, and problematic framings of service and community design with research from Mitchell, Maree Brown, and Villanueva. In my community projects I have tried to enact my learnings by checking my privilege, creating authentic win-wins, and being radically real about motivations and outcomes - but this is a never ending process that requires constant self-awareness and reflection.Describe why you (& your team) are the right people to bring this idea to life. *I think I am the right person to launch and scale Cambio Labs because I have the inner drive, entrepreneurial skills, and experience as an educator and program developer to do so. Before becoming an educator, I dedicated my career to developing an organization that could deliver empowerment and access to some of the most underrepresented and poorest people on the planet - coffee farmers in developing countries. In launching Cambio Coffee, I successfully built relationships with coffee cooperatives across various countries, worked minimum wage jobs as a barista and coffee roaster for the sake of gaining operational knowledge, constantly networked and pitched my ideas in the startup ecosystems of Boston and Shanghai, raised over $400K throughout 5 years, and operated a successful social enterprise coffee company in the explosive and incredibly challenging emerging market context of China. I have the vision, grit, experience, and a track record of attracting the resources and support networks necessary to establish and grow a company. Most importantly I have an authentic orientation to community empowerment and social impact - a sense of purpose - which has motivated me every step of the way. More recently as an educator and Social Innovation Program Lead at Avenues NYC, I have gained invaluable experience as a program director and educational innovator: operating autonomously to develop and execute my own social innovation curriculum, teaching 4 courses and working closely with students, and developing deep networks of support for my work within my school, and among like-minded organizations in the city.Where do you feel you have the most room to grow as a leader? *I am a constant “work in progress” and aspire to be a life-long learner, experimenter, and community-builder. I am committed to becoming self aware of my missteps and shortcomings, and constantly striving to develop as a leader and movement-maker. In being an effective social entrepreneur, I want to do more to maximize impact. By reading books like Lean Impact and Social Startup Success, I have recognized the limitations of social enterprises, and have adopted more of a flexible, cross-sectoral approach in my formation of Cambio as a cooperative, non-profit entity that always prioritizes impact first. I spent much of my career developing entrepreneurial expertise by absorbing mentorship and advice from others, and feeding myself concepts like Lean Startup and Design Thinking. While I subscribe to these ideas, I sometimes struggle to apply these processes as rigorously as I should to my own projects. It’s sometimes easier to teach and advise others than to practice what you preach - this is an area that I am working on by being disciplined and mindful of process. As an innovator interested in dismantling structural inequities and empowering others, I have tried to school myself on issues of race, privilege, and problematic framings of service and community design with research from Mitchell, Maree Brown, and Villanueva. In my community projects I have tried to enact my learnings by checking my privilege, creating authentic win-wins, and being radically real about motivations and outcomes - but this is a never ending process that requires constant self-awareness and reflection.