What's the one-sentence description of what your organization does? For example: "We help young people access entry-level careers in tech by..."We help underestimated BIPOC communities become founders of social enterprises by designing and delivering ed tech and business incubator programs by social entrepreneurs and educators. V1: We empower low income BIPOC social entrepreneurs through educational programs, learning technology, and by providing access to investment and job opportunities.V2: We empower low income BIPOC social entrepreneurs by providing access to educational programs, learning technology, and social and financial capital to advance their careers or startups.What is your organization's vision / mission? (30 seconds)We empower low income BIPOC social entrepreneurs through educational programs, learning technology, and by providing access to investment and job opportunities.Our vision is to create publicly accessible social entrepreneurship programs and support, especially for our most underserved and disadvantaged populations. We also want to proliferate access to the clean energy sector and to develop green energy infrastructure and jobs for low income people.The usage of technology, gamification, and emergent tech like AI is central to our vision.What does your organization do today (i.e. products, services, scale, etc.)? (45s)? Nonprofit is a leader in its field We deliver educational programs - primarily in the areas of social entrepreneurship, to underestimated, low income youth and adults. We also deliver green workforce programs to adults.We work with schools, nonprofits, government organizations, and a variety of partners to deliver our educational programs. We serve both youth and adults. We have served x people.Our business model is to charge clients for.. 85% of our income is through earned sales.Our vision for scale is to continue to develop our Journey platform and to make our platform and train the trainer model so robust that any educator or community leader anywhere could deliver our social innovation and green workforce programs.We deliver our programs through Journey, our proprietary gamified learning platform, which includes:Coding for Social Impact – a rigorous and immersive course that teaches the fundamentals of object oriented programming that seeks to inspire students to become agents of social change. This course goes way beyond coding. It is an introduction to today’s most advanced technologies and a deep dive into the transformative power of computational thinking to address pressing social challenges.In this course, students will embark on a journey to explore the tools and techniques used in real world software development while addressing social issues that resonate with them personally. Through guided project development, collaborative discussions, and mentorship, students will develop the confidence and skills needed to transform their ideas into tangible solutions as well as practice software engineering and system design skills used by real practitioners every day.During this five-week program, young changemakers will learn programming languages like C++, HTML, Flask, and Python, along with online platforms such as Replit, to develop organizational websites and basic digital prototypes for their business ideas. Throught this program, participants can deepen their understanding and problem solving skills as rising software engineers.Entrepreneurship Camp:StartUp NYCHA: a business accelerator program designed for NYCHA entrepreneurs to launch and develop their own businesses. Throughout our 5 month Business Accelerator Program, entrepreneurs will receive business training, mentorship, and access to the Cambio Labs curriculum and Journey, a gamified learning platform.During the program, participants define their product, customers, business model, sales strategy, funding strategy, and actually pilot and test your products with real users and customers. The program culminates in a pitching competition, where entrepreneurs will pitch their business for rewards and further business development opportunities.These programs are designed and delivered in collaboration with community partners to ensure they are culturally competent and responsive to the needs of NYCHA residents.  Through these initiatives, Cambio Labs equips participants with the skills, knowledge, and networks necessary to become successful social entrepreneurs and community leaders.Cambio Solar: Cambio Energy is an initiative to create access to clean energy jobs, utilities savings through community solar projects, and green entrepreneurship accelerators that will produce green new businesses and community owned cooperatives. Our plan is to work with ecosystem partners across the corporate, workforce, nonprofit, union, and government sectors to activate publicly accessible spaces where community members can benefit from free renewable energy jobs training, green entrepreneurship accelerator programs, internship and job placement opportunities, and access to mentorship and mutual aid programs. What technical build could the organization benefit from? (1:00)? Mobile Responsiveness? Affordability & Accessibility? AI Development - Project Sparky? Self-Paced and Tailored Learning Experiences? Auto-Grading & Skills Assessments? Immediate feedback & Live Translation? Coaching? Data Management Systems? Skills Tracking / Badging / Credentialing? A system for tracking and visualizing performance metrics, particularly for student outcomes? Improved UX for Course Creators & Educators? Further Gamification & Mentor Matching? Further Integration Capacity with other partnersBuild Priorities 1. User Experience EnhancementsObjective: Improve access and interaction quality for users across different platforms.Mobile-Friendly Platform: Develop a responsive or native mobile application to enhance accessibility for users without laptops, with a focus on frontend and backend development. Allocate 1-2 dedicated engineers.B2C Application Version: Implement self-sign-on authentication to streamline user onboarding, moving away from the current Auth0 system which restricts to B2B engagements.White-Label Version: Create a customizable version of the platform to facilitate easier collaboration with other social organizations.2. Advanced Data Management and TrackingObjective: Equip the platform with robust data management tools to improve performance analysis and operational efficiency.Backend Management System: Develop a new backend with an intuitive dashboard for internal management. Assign 1 engineer.Data Dashboard for Metrics: Establish a comprehensive system for tracking and visualizing performance metrics, particularly for student outcomes.3.Learning and Instructional ToolsObjective: Enhance the educational experience through technology, making learning more adaptive and teaching more efficient.AI Integration in Curriculum: Use AI to personalize learning content based on student performance, categorizing questions by difficulty levels.Sparky Development: Create a self-paced, personalized learning tool with features like auto-grading and automated instructional support to assist teachers and students.Teacher Tools: Enhance teacher onboarding and course creation processes through improved UX design and support tools.4. Gamification and EngagementObjective: Increase user engagement and practical outcomes through interactive and verifiable learning opportunities.Skill-Based Badges: Develop blockchain-verifiable badges that align with corporate sponsorship and employment pipelines.Gamification Features: Introduce mini-games, streaks, and varied prizes to enrich the learning platform and increase user engagement.5. Accessibility and Assessment ImprovementsObjective: Expand the platform's reach and enhance the quality of feedback and assessment.Live Translation Features: Implement live translation capabilities to cater to a diverse, multilingual user base.Enhanced Assessment Tools: Use AI to standardize feedback quality and support teacher grading efforts.Mentorship Integration: Develop a seamless system for vetting, matching, and scheduling mentors to enhance student guidance and project support.6. Content Creation and ManagementObjective: Empower educators with tools to easily generate and manage educational content.Enhanced Content Creation Interface: Implement AI-supported tools for video creation, subtitling, summarizing, and generating related content.-Creating a mobile-friendly version of our existing platform (either native app, or mobile-friendly, or both) from front end and backend perspective  +1 and accessibility for non laptop owners. 1-2 dedicated engineers.-Creating a new backend management system; dashboard creation. 1 engineer-Building a data management system + dashboard to track metrics.	-Enhanced performance tracking for students -Building a B2C friendly version of the application with self-sign on authentication and management, currently on auth0 outsourced which limits onboarding to b2b and is a negative first experience-Creating a white-label friendly version of the platform (to increase our ease of partnering with other organizations); customization ease for partners-Integrating AI throughout the curriculum to personalize the questions/modules/activities that are shown to students based on their performance. Classify questions into different tiers of difficulty to capture progression of their AI knowledge and capabilities. -Development of Sparky: self-paced personalized learning experience, more automated instruction, auto-grading, and instructional support. Sparky would help teachers with prepping, course creation and students through the program	-Development of Teacher Tools (UX team project): to make the onboarding and training of teachers, and their prepping process easier- Development of Badges that are matches to skills and verifiable using blockchain technology. This will enable us to have corporate and technical sponsors of badges, and will facilitate employment and internship pipelines? More verifiable badges that respond to corporate sponsors’ hiring needs?-Further gamification features on platform: mini-games, streaks, stats, varied prizes- Other collaborations and tech integrations: icould be social capital and mentorship trackers, data tracking and reporting functions (Life 3)  — ease of integrating with other social impact -Live translation into different languages to enhance accessibility-Enhanced Assessment capabilities using AI- to deliver consistent and uniform quality feedback and support teachers grading-Integration of a seamless vetting matching and scheduling system for mentors to be onboarded, connect with students and attain guidance for their projects-Enhanced interface for teachers to easily create content with the support of AI, easy video creation with subtitles, summaries, and associated content.-Better data capture of a students’ progression to create reports, skills inventoriesWhy have you prioritized this build? (1 min)? Need for an additional tech build to deliver increased impact? Build is strategic, critical to mission, and has been approved by the Boarda.  2) which will differentially increase the organization’s impact by unlocking new users served or increasing the depth at which users can be served, and 3) which can be chunked off into a discrete build which can be completed in ~6 months with 3-4 engineers and then maintained by an internal tech team.2. There is a slight preference for externally-facing systems or internally-facing systems which can catalyze programmatic impact (please explicitly include in your application how this external impact will occur from internally-focused projects (e.g., an improved volunteer training program will allow us to serve an estimated “x” more people, given these assumptions)Greater Accessibility for our target audience, underestimated low-income BIPOC innovators? 25% of Hispanic adults are smartphone-only internet users, compared to 12% of White adults.? 27% of adults in households earning less than $30,000 a year are smartphone-only internet users, a substantial increase from 12% in 2013? 41% of low-income adults do not have a desktop or laptop computer? 92% of jobs require digital skills, yet one-third of the workforce lacks basic digital skills, disproportionately affecting low-income and BIPOC individuals.1. Enhanced Social Capital Development and Placement Opportunities? More automated matching with mentors will empower workers? 56% of American workers do not have a mentor.? 74% of job seekers and 54% of managers believe mentorship is important for upskilling and reskilling.? 85% of positions are filled through networking, highlighting the importance of social capital in job acquisition.? Low-income and BIPOC individuals often lack the social capital necessary to access high-quality job opportunities. This is partly due to historical and systemic barriers that limit their networking opportunities.2. Access to more content creators and more curricula? 92% of jobs require digital skills, yet one-third of the workforce lacks basic digital skills, disproportionately affecting low-income and BIPOC individuals- all participants would be enabled to gain greater access to more courses with a more customizable backend? Segregation and Funding Gaps: New York City has some of the most segregated schools in the United States, with significant funding gaps between districts enrolling the most students in poverty and those enrolling the fewest. Schools with high concentrations of students of color are often underfunded, lacking access to qualified teachers, early education programs, and college prep classes3. Enhanced certifications, standardized quality courses, and skills tracking? Occupational licensing requirements, such as application fees and formal education or training, disproportionately impact low-income and BIPOC individuals. These requirements can make it difficult for these groups to enter licensed professions, thereby limiting their economic mobilityWhat is the expected impact of the build (i.e. incremental people served)? (45s)Developing a more automated “self-paced” version of our programs on Journey would allow us to partner with networks like the Public Library system, NYCHA, and other government entities to really fulfill our vision of creating publicly accessible innovation infrastructure.This could impact thousands of lives and exponentially increase our social impact outcomes.Creating a more user friendly course creation and course management / prepping system would also allow us to scale across schools and onboard teachers at a much larger scale, impacting thousands more across school systems.Partnering with other orgs that are interested in using our platform will also increase the gross number of people served through partnerships.? Improved UX and accessibility? Cost reduction for clients, data tracking, and pipeline to new jobs? Multi-lingual offerings for migrant and refugee populations? Increase our impact from hundreds to thousands served yearly? Enable new partnerships with orgs interested in offering self-paced programs to their networks? Public Library Systems? NYCHA? Other social impact and human development orgs looking for a way to digitize and scale programsEstimate of amount of people served next year with new build: 3,000 up from 450What resources have you used up to this point, if any? What resources do you anticipate to need next? (30s)We have used:? Program revenue and grants: investing into technological, curricular, and team development we have invested into the development of 2 versions of our platform, UX redesign, the development of 27 customized curricula and programs, integrated AI into our platform and curricula.? In-kind services: leveraging volunteers and interns to amplify our work and impact, while also providing valuable work experience to the community. We have engaged full-time volunteers, and managed over 35 long-term volunteer engagements, and engaged diverse mentors and judges for each cohort.? Fellowships and accelerator networks: we have leveraged mentorship from strategic partners and clients to enhance our program offeringFuture resources:? Funding to match our strategic objectives and vision for growth / theory of change, including, hiring longer-term staff to improve our program content, reach, and impact? Technological development: advances in our platform to make it more scalable, personalized, automated, and accessible and impactful for a mass market of users? Strategic partnerships and deeper relationships with cross-sectoral partners to provide capital for entrepreneurs, access to public spaces, mentorship, internship, and job opportunities What are risks or unknowns when it comes to the proposed project? (30s)Unknowns:? Whether we can train Sparky to level of proficiency and functionality that we envision? Whether our program can be as impactful as a more self-paced and mass market solution? How far we can automate and integrate AI to compliment the human-centered facilitation, mentorship, and inquiry-based approach inherent in our programming? Whether we can successfully scale nationally and internationally with robust technology and systems development? How to collect data through platform to quantify impact and prove theory of changeRisks:? Lack of compatibility between current tech stack and what is built by Engine? Data privacy of users (including students)Who from your organization would lead this project with ENG(INE)? (30s)Sarah Zou + Andrej with support from SebastianTech team overview (45s)Sarah Zou is a highly skilled product strategist with a robust background in digital strategy, product operations, and technical management. As our Director of Tech and Product, Sarah leverages her expertise to drive the integration of advanced educational technologies aimed at empowering marginalized youth through entrepreneurial education.Sarah's technical management is underscored by her comprehensive knowledge of software development, data analytics, and user-centered design. She excels in creating effective team processes and fostering an environment conducive to innovation and collaboration. Her international experience working with founding teams has enhanced her capability to develop inclusive and accessible tech solutions.With an MBA and an undergrad background in biology, Sarah adeptly merges ed tech and social entrepreneurship. Her agile, data-driven approach and commitment to bridging the digital divide make her an invaluable asset in the mission to democratize access to high-quality education and innovation for underserved communities.At Cambio Labs, Sarah plays a pivotal role in designing and implementing the Journey platform, a gamified learning management system that combines multimedia content, interactive challenges, and real-world rewards. Her strategic vision and technical acumen are instrumental in enhancing the platform's capability to provide personalized, culturally-competent business training to BIPOC youth, equipping them with the skills and confidence to become future leaders and innovators.For Slides: Sarah Zou - Director of Tech and Product? Extensive experience in digital strategy, product operations, and technical management? MBA and Biology background from IESE Business School logoIESE Business School and McGill University ? Comprehensive knowledge of software development, data analytics, and user-centered design? Proficient in creating effective team processes and ensuring psychological safety? Drives the integration of advanced educational technologies and social entrepreneurship? Inclusive approach to technology solutions informed by international experience working with founding teams ? Committed to bridging the digital divide and democratizing access to high-quality educationAndrej Håkansson is a highly skilled Full Stack Engineer with over two decades of experience in software development and systems architecture. Andrej's technical expertise spans Java, IntelliJ IDEA, and Linux, and he has a proven track record in developing medium-sized applications and managing software projects from inception to completion.At Cambio Labs, Andrej is the technical backbone behind the Journey platform, a gamified learning management system designed to empower underserved BIPOC youth. His proficiency in software engineering ensures the platform's scalability, security, and user-friendliness. Andrej's ability to integrate multimedia content, interactive challenges, and real-world rewards into the platform demonstrates his innovative approach to software development. His background in Unix system administration and computer engineering from The Institute of Technology at Linköping University further solidifies his technical foundation.Andrej Håkansson? Over two decades in software development and systems architecture? Computer Engineering, The Institute of Technology at Linköping University? Software Developer at Looklet AB and SafeWiz? Expertise in Java, IntelliJ IDEA, and Linux? Proven track record in developing medium-sized applications? Managed software projects from inception to completion? Technical backbone of the Journey platform at Cambio Labs? Ensures platform scalability, security, and user-friendlinessWhat are you most excited about when considering ENG(INE)? What would you want to see from the program if you're selected? We're open to any and all interesting ideas.We are most excited to partner with AlleyCorp to leverage a full-time development team to realize the vision that we've had for a long time around scaling our technology to positively impact people all over the city and world. Our tech stack and vision seems to be very much aligned with AlleyCorp's areas of expertise, and I can't wait to radically upgrade our product within a matter of months! Our roadmap will be majorly accelerated through this partnership, and we will have to foundation for national and international scale to hopefully impact hundreds of thousands of lives within the next couple of years. Our team is very excited to test the usages and limitations of Sparky, our AI enabled bot, and to see how our student and adult participants leverage AI to boost their own learning and entrepreneurial productivity. What would I want to see from the program if we are selected? Commitment, responsiveness, and excitement about what we are building and testing with real users and high-needs communities! I would also ask for trust in my own teams' relationships with local community members and our abilities to bring this project to life. We would also greatly appreciate introductions to new partners and opportunities for accessing more philanthropic and in-kind support from AlleyCorp, other VCs, and other corporations that want to do more good with their resources, teams and capital. We are always on the look-out for judges for pitching competitions, as well as mentorship and internship experiences for the entrepreneurs that we serve.I wonder how our new co-created product could be piloted and tested most effectively and excitingly? I would love to pitch the idea of creating a publicly accessible demo of the product that we build, allowing everyday New Yorkers to interact with our tech. Let's drum up some publicity and excitement about what we are building together!Thanks for this opportunity! We are excited and hope to work together.